cf01.1.0	ref	In American romance , almost nothing rates higher than what the movie men have called `` meeting cute '' -- that is , boy-meets-girl seems more adorable if it does n't take place in an atmosphere of correct and acute boredom .
cf01.1.1	post-adv	In American romance , almost nothing rates higher than what the movie men have called `` meeting cute '' -- if it does n't take place in an atmosphere of correct and acute boredom that is , boy-meets-girl seems more adorable .
cf01.2.0	ref	Just about the most enthralling real-life example of meeting cute is the Charles MacArthur-Helen Hayes saga : reputedly all he did was give her a handful of peanuts , but he said simultaneously , `` I wish they were emeralds '' .
cf01.2.1	dat-np-np	Just about the most enthralling real-life example of meeting cute is the Charles MacArthur-Helen Hayes saga : reputedly all he did was give a handful of peanuts to her , but he said simultaneously , `` I wish they were emeralds '' .
cf01.3.0	ref	Aside from the comico-romantico content here , a good linguist-anthropologist could readily pick up a few other facts , especially if he had a little more of the conversation to go on .
cf01.3.1	post-adv	Aside from the comico-romantico content here , a good linguist-anthropologist , especially if he had a little more of the conversation to go on , could readily pick up a few other facts .
cf01.4.0	ref	The way MacArthur said his line -- if you had the recorded transcript of a professional linguist -- would probably have gone like this : Primary stresses on emeralds and wish ; note pitch 3 -LRB- pretty high -RRB- on emeralds but with a slight degree of drawl , one degree of oversoftness .
cf01.4.1	pre-adv	The way MacArthur said his line would probably have gone like this : Primary stresses on emeralds and wish ; note pitch 3 -LRB- pretty high -RRB- on emeralds but with a slight degree of drawl , one degree of oversoftness -- if you had the recorded transcript of a professional linguist .
cf01.6.0	ref	And the drawling , oversoft voice of flirtation , though fairly overt , was still well within the prescribed gambit of their culture .
cf01.6.1	pre-adv	And the drawling , oversoft voice of flirtation was still well within the prescribed gambit of their culture , though fairly overt .
cf01.7.0	ref	In other words , like automation machines designed to work in tandem , they shared the same programming , a mutual understanding not only of English words , but of the four stresses , pitches , and junctures that can change their meaning from black to white .
cf01.7.1	pre-adj2	Like automation machines designed to work in tandem , in other words , they shared the same programming , a mutual understanding not only of English words , but of the four stresses , pitches , and junctures that can change their meaning from black to white .
cf01.8.0	ref	At this point , unfortunately , romance becomes a regrettably small part of the picture ; but consider , if you can bear it , what might have happened if MacArthur , for some perverse , undaunted reason , had made the same remark to an Eskimo girl in Eskimo .
cf01.8.1	pre-adj2	Unfortunately , at this point , romance becomes a regrettably small part of the picture ; but consider , if you can bear it , what might have happened if MacArthur , for some perverse , undaunted reason , had made the same remark to an Eskimo girl in Eskimo .
cf01.8.2	post-adv	At this point , unfortunately , romance becomes a regrettably small part of the picture ; but , if you can bear it , consider what might have happened if MacArthur , for some perverse , undaunted reason , had made the same remark to an Eskimo girl in Eskimo .
cf01.8.3	post-adv	At this point , unfortunately , romance becomes a regrettably small part of the picture ; but consider , if you can bear it , what might if MacArthur , for some perverse , undaunted reason , had made the same remark to an Eskimo girl in Eskimo have happened .
cf01.8.4	post-adj2	At this point , unfortunately , romance becomes a regrettably small part of the picture ; but consider , if you can bear it , what might have happened if MacArthur , for some perverse , undaunted reason , had made the same remark in Eskimo to an Eskimo girl .
cf01.11.0	ref	This basic principle , the first in a richly knotted bundle , was conveyed to me by Dr. Henry Lee Smith , Jr. , at the University of Buffalo , where he heads the world 's first department of anthropology and linguistics .
cf01.11.1	post-adj2	This basic principle , the first in a richly knotted bundle , was conveyed by Dr. Henry Lee Smith , Jr. , at the University of Buffalo , where he heads the world 's first department of anthropology and linguistics to me .
cf01.14.0	ref	It was there , in the course of trying to prepare new men for the `` culture shock '' they might encounter in remote overseas posts , that he first began to develop a system of charting the `` norms of human communication '' .
cf01.14.1	post-adj2	It was in the course of trying to prepare new men for the `` culture shock '' they might encounter in remote overseas posts , there , that he first began to develop a system of charting the `` norms of human communication '' .
cf01.16.0	ref	It is only fairly recently , however , that linguists have developed a systematic way of charting voices on paper in a way that tells even more about the speakers and about the success or failure of human communication between two people .
cf01.16.1	post-adj3	It is fairly recently only , however , that linguists have developed a systematic way of charting voices on paper in a way that tells even more about the speakers and about the success or failure of human communication between two people .
cf01.16.2	post-adj3	It is however fairly recently , only , that linguists have developed a systematic way of charting voices on paper in a way that tells even more about the speakers and about the success or failure of human communication between two people .
cf01.16.3	post-adj3	It is only however , fairly recently , that linguists have developed a systematic way of charting voices on paper in a way that tells even more about the speakers and about the success or failure of human communication between two people .
cf01.16.4	post-adj3	It is , however , only fairly recently that linguists have developed a systematic way of charting voices on paper in a way that tells even more about the speakers and about the success or failure of human communication between two people .
cf01.16.5	post-adj3	It is fairly recently , however only , that linguists have developed a systematic way of charting voices on paper in a way that tells even more about the speakers and about the success or failure of human communication between two people .
cf01.20.0	ref	For example , if you are a reasonably well-adjusted person , there are certain ways that are reasonable and appropriate for addressing your mother .
cf01.20.1	pre-adv	For example there are certain ways that are reasonable and appropriate for addressing your mother , if you are a reasonably well-adjusted person .
cf01.26.0	ref	And while the meaning of the words is not in this instance altered , the quality of communication in both the second and third examples is definitely impaired .
cf01.26.1	pre-adv	And the quality of communication in both the second and third examples is definitely impaired , while the meaning of the words is not in this instance altered .
cf01.28.0	ref	With this seven-word sentence -- though the speaker undoubtedly thought he was dealing only with the subject of food -- he was telling things about himself and , in the last two examples , revealing that he had departed from the customs of his culture .
cf01.28.1	pre-adv	With this seven-word sentence he was telling things about himself and , in the last two examples , revealing that he had departed from the customs of his culture -- though the speaker undoubtedly thought he was dealing only with the subject of food .
cf01.30.0	ref	Since interviewing is the basic therapeutic and diagnostic instrument of modern psychiatry , the recording of interviews for playbacks and study has been a boost of Redstone proportions in new research and training .
cf01.30.1	pre-adv	The recording of interviews for playbacks and study has been a boost of Redstone proportions in new research and training , since interviewing is the basic therapeutic and diagnostic instrument of modern psychiatry .
cf01.31.0	ref	Some of the earliest recordings , made in the 1940 's demonstrated that psychiatrists reacted immediately to anger and anxiety in the sound track , whereas written records of the same interview offered far fewer cues to therapy which -- if they were at all discernible in print -- were picked up only by the most skilled and sensitive experts .
cf01.31.1	post-adv	Some of the earliest recordings , made in the 1940 's demonstrated that , whereas written records of the same interview offered far fewer cues to therapy which -- if they were at all discernible in print -- were picked up only by the most skilled and sensitive experts , psychiatrists reacted immediately to anger and anxiety in the sound track .
cf01.31.2	pre-adv	Some of the earliest recordings , made in the 1940 's demonstrated that psychiatrists reacted immediately to anger and anxiety in the sound track , whereas written records of the same interview offered far fewer cues to therapy which -- were picked up only by the most skilled and sensitive experts -- if they were at all discernible in print .
cf01.33.0	ref	At a minimum , recording -- usually on tape , which is now in wide professional use -- brings the psychiatric interview alive so that the full range of emotion and meaning can be explored repeatedly by the therapist or by a battery of therapists .
cf01.33.1	post-adv	So that the full range of emotion and meaning can be explored repeatedly by the therapist or by a battery of therapists at a minimum , recording -- usually on tape , which is now in wide professional use -- brings the psychiatric interview alive .
cf01.40.0	ref	In one now-historic first interview , for example , the transcript -LRB- reproduced from the book , The First Five Minutes -RRB- goes like this : The therapist 's level tone is bland and neutral -- he has , for example , avoided stressing `` you '' , which would imply disapproval ; or surprise , which would set the patient apart from other people .
cf01.40.1	pre-adj2	For example , in one now-historic first interview , the transcript -LRB- reproduced from the book , The First Five Minutes -RRB- goes like this : The therapist 's level tone is bland and neutral -- he has , for example , avoided stressing `` you '' , which would imply disapproval ; or surprise , which would set the patient apart from other people .
cf01.43.0	ref	Consequently , it is referred to the therapist for attention .
cf01.43.1	post-adj2	Consequently , it is referred for attention to the therapist .
cf01.49.0	ref	By saying `` another emotional death '' , she reveals that there has been a previous one , although she has not described it in words .
cf01.49.1	post-adv	Although she has not described it in words , by saying `` another emotional death '' , she reveals that there has been a previous one .
cf01.52.0	ref	Since the psychiatric interview , like any other interview , depends on communication , it is significant to note that the therapist in this interview was a man of marked skill and long experience .
cf01.52.1	pre-adv	It is significant to note that the therapist in this interview was a man of marked skill and long experience , since the psychiatric interview , like any other interview , depends on communication .
cf01.54.0	ref	Interestingly enough -- although none of the real-life therapists involved could conceivably compare with Blauberman -- when groups of them began playing back interviews , they discovered any number of ways in which they wanted to polish their own interview techniques ; almost everyone , on first hearing one of his own sessions on tape , expressed some desire to take the whole thing over again .
cf01.54.1	pre-adv	Interestingly enough when groups of them began playing back interviews , they discovered any number of ways in which they wanted to polish their own interview techniques -- although none of the real-life therapists involved could conceivably compare with Blauberman ; almost everyone , on first hearing one of his own sessions on tape , expressed some desire to take the whole thing over again .
cf01.54.2	pre-adv	Interestingly enough -- although none of the real-life therapists involved could conceivably compare with Blauberman they discovered any number of ways in which they wanted to polish their own interview techniques -- when groups of them began playing back interviews ; almost everyone , on first hearing one of his own sessions on tape , expressed some desire to take the whole thing over again .
cf01.55.0	ref	Yet , in spite of this , intensive study of the taped interviews by teams of psychotherapists and linguists laid bare the surprising fact that , in the first five minutes of an initial interview , the patient often reveals as many as a dozen times just what 's wrong with him ; to spot these giveaways the therapist must know either intuitively or scientifically how to listen .
cf01.55.1	pre-adj2	In spite of this , yet , intensive study of the taped interviews by teams of psychotherapists and linguists laid bare the surprising fact that , in the first five minutes of an initial interview , the patient often reveals as many as a dozen times just what 's wrong with him ; to spot these giveaways the therapist must know either intuitively or scientifically how to listen .
cf01.57.0	ref	What he does do is give himself away by communicating information over and above the words involved .
cf01.57.1	post-adj2	What he does do is give himself by communicating information over and above the words involved away .
cf01.58.0	ref	Some of the classic indicators , as described by Drs. Pittenger , Hockett , and Danehy in The First Five Minutes , are these : ambiguity of pronouns : Stammering or repetition of I , you , he , she , et cetera may signal ambiguity or uncertainty .
cf01.58.1	pre-adv	Some of the classic indicators are these : ambiguity of pronouns : Stammering or repetition of I , you , he , she , et cetera may signal ambiguity or uncertainty , as described by Drs. Pittenger , Hockett , and Danehy in The First Five Minutes .
cf01.58.2	post-adj2	Some of the classic indicators , as described in The First Five Minutes by Drs. Pittenger , Hockett , and Danehy , are these : ambiguity of pronouns : Stammering or repetition of I , you , he , she , et cetera may signal ambiguity or uncertainty .
cf01.59.0	ref	On the other hand significant facts may be concealed -- she may mean I or everybody , as it did with the tense and irritable woman mentioned before , may refer to a specific person .
cf01.59.1	pre-adv	On the other hand significant facts may be concealed -- she may mean I or everybody may refer to a specific person , as it did with the tense and irritable woman mentioned before .
cf01.61.0	ref	When someone says , for example , `` They took x-rays to see that there was nothing wrong with me '' , it pays to consider how this statement would normally be made .
cf01.61.1	pre-adv	It pays to consider how this statement would normally be made , when someone says , for example , `` They took x-rays to see that there was nothing wrong with me '' .
cf01.63.0	ref	Amateur linguists note here that Pursewarden , in Durrell 's Alexandria Quartet , stammered when he spoke of his wife , which is hardly surprising in view of their disastrous relationship .
cf01.63.1	post-adv	Amateur linguists note here that Pursewarden , in Durrell 's Alexandria Quartet , when he spoke of his wife stammered , which is hardly surprising in view of their disastrous relationship .
cf02.3.0	ref	The John Harvey arrived in Bari , a port on the Adriatic , on November 28th , making for Porto Nuovo , which , as the name indicates , was the ancient city 's new and modern harbor .
cf02.3.1	pre-adv	The John Harvey arrived in Bari , a port on the Adriatic , on November 28th , making for Porto Nuovo , which , was the ancient city 's new and modern harbor , as the name indicates .
cf02.3.2	post-adj2	The John Harvey arrived on November 28th , in Bari , a port on the Adriatic , making for Porto Nuovo , which , as the name indicates , was the ancient city 's new and modern harbor .
cf02.4.0	ref	Hardly anyone ashore marked her as she anchored stern-to off Berth 29 on the mole .
cf02.4.1	post-adv	As she anchored stern-to off Berth 29 on the mole hardly anyone ashore marked her .
cf02.4.2	post-adj2	Hardly anyone ashore marked her as she anchored off Berth 29 on the mole stern-to .
cf02.5.0	ref	If anyone thought of the John Harvey , it was to observe that she was straddled by a pair of ships heavily laden with high explosive and if they were hit the John Harvey would likely be blown up with her own ammo and whatever else it was that she carried .
cf02.5.1	pre-adv	It was to observe that she was straddled by a pair of ships heavily laden with high explosive and if they were hit the John Harvey would likely be blown up with her own ammo and whatever else it was that she carried , if anyone thought of the John Harvey .
cf02.5.2	pre-adv	If anyone thought of the John Harvey , it was to observe that she was straddled by a pair of ships heavily laden with high explosive and the John Harvey would likely be blown up with her own ammo and whatever else it was that she carried if they were hit .
cf02.7.0	ref	It had required the approval of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt before the John Harvey could be loaded with 100 tons of mustard gas and despatched to the Italian warfront .
cf02.7.1	post-adv	It before the John Harvey could be loaded with 100 tons of mustard gas and despatched to the Italian warfront had required the approval of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt .
cf02.13.0	ref	To silence extremists , to warn the Axis , President Roosevelt issued this statement for the Allies in August : `` From time to time since the present war began there have been reports that one or more of the Axis powers were seriously contemplating use of poisonous gas or noxious gases or other inhumane devices of warfare .
cf02.13.1	post-adv	Since the present war began to silence extremists , to warn the Axis , President Roosevelt issued this statement for the Allies in August : `` From time to time there have been reports that one or more of the Axis powers were seriously contemplating use of poisonous gas or noxious gases or other inhumane devices of warfare .
cf02.13.2	pre-adv	To silence extremists , to warn the Axis , President Roosevelt issued this statement for the Allies in August : `` From time to time there have been reports that one or more of the Axis powers were seriously contemplating use of poisonous gas or noxious gases or other inhumane devices of warfare since the present war began .
cf02.15.0	ref	`` However , evidence that the Axis powers are making significant preparations indicative of such an intention is being reported with increasing frequency from a variety of sources .
cf02.15.1	post-adj2	`` However , evidence that the Axis powers are making significant preparations indicative of such an intention is being reported from a variety of sources with increasing frequency .
cf02.18.0	ref	I state categorically that we shall under no circumstances resort to the use of such weapons unless they are first used by our enemies '' .
cf02.18.1	post-adv	I state categorically that we unless they are first used by our enemies shall under no circumstances resort to the use of such weapons '' .
cf02.19.0	ref	The following month the invasion of Italy was begun , and Roosevelt gave effect to his warning by consenting to the stockpiling of poison gas in southern Italy .
cf02.19.1	post-adj2	The following month the invasion of Italy was begun , and Roosevelt gave effect by consenting to the stockpiling of poison gas in southern Italy to his warning .
cf02.28.0	ref	Thus , in the immemorial way -- in the way of the right hand that knows and the left that does not -- was the stage set for tragedy at Bari .
cf02.28.1	pre-adj2	In the immemorial way -- in the way of the right hand that knows and the left that does not -- thus was the stage set for tragedy at Bari .
cf02.28.2	post-adj2	Thus , in the immemorial way -- in the way of the right hand that knows and the left that does not -- was the stage set at Bari for tragedy .
cf02.32.0	ref	He knew that German long-range bombers had been returning to the attack in Italy .
cf02.32.1	post-adj2	He knew that German long-range bombers had been returning in Italy to the attack .
cf02.35.0	ref	After it had reappeared the next two nights , Jenks went to higher headquarters and said : `` For three days now a German reconnaissance plane has been over the city taking pictures .
cf02.35.1	pre-adv	Jenks went to higher headquarters and said : `` For three days now a German reconnaissance plane has been over the city taking pictures , after it had reappeared the next two nights .
cf02.38.0	ref	Even though it was known that the Luftwaffe in the north was now being directed by the young and energetic General Peltz , the commander who would conduct the `` Little Blitz '' on London in 1944 , a major raid on Bari at this juncture of the war was not to be considered seriously .
cf02.38.1	pre-adv	A major raid on Bari at this juncture of the war was not to be considered seriously , even though it was known that the Luftwaffe in the north was now being directed by the young and energetic General Peltz , the commander who would conduct the `` Little Blitz '' on London in 1944 .
cf02.48.0	ref	And everywhere in evidence among the few remaining defensive units was that old handmaiden of disaster -- multiple command .
cf02.48.1	pre-adj2	And among the few remaining defensive units in evidence everywhere was that old handmaiden of disaster -- multiple command .
cf02.49.0	ref	It had been made shockingly evident that very morning to Ensign Kay K. Vesole , in charge of the armed guard aboard the John Bascom .
cf02.49.1	post-adj2	It had been made shockingly evident to Ensign Kay K. Vesole , in charge of the armed guard aboard the John Bascom that very morning .
cf02.50.0	ref	A British officer had come aboard and told him that in case of enemy air attack he was not to open fire until bombs were actually dropped .
cf02.50.1	post-adv	A British officer had come aboard and told him that in case of enemy air attack he was not until bombs were actually dropped to open fire .
cf02.52.0	ref	`` This harbor is a bomber 's paradise '' , the Britisher had said with frank grimness .
cf02.52.1	quote	`` This harbor is a bomber 's paradise '' , had said the Britisher with frank grimness .
cf02.57.0	ref	Not fire until the bombs came down !
cf02.57.1	post-adv	Until the bombs came down not fire !
cf02.61.0	ref	What would his guns guide on then -- the North Star ?
cf02.61.1	post-adj2	What would his guns guide then on -- the North Star ?
cf02.62.0	ref	Ensign Vesole decided that he would not tarry until he heard the whispering of the bombs , and when night began to fall , he put Seaman 2 Donald L. Norton and Seaman 1 William A. Rochford on the guns and told them to start shooting the moment they saw an enemy silhouette .
cf02.62.1	post-adv	Ensign Vesole decided that he until he heard the whispering of the bombs would not tarry , and when night began to fall , he put Seaman 2 Donald L. Norton and Seaman 1 William A. Rochford on the guns and told them to start shooting the moment they saw an enemy silhouette .
cf02.62.2	pre-adv	Ensign Vesole decided that he would not tarry until he heard the whispering of the bombs , and he put Seaman 2 Donald L. Norton and Seaman 1 William A. Rochford on the guns and told them to start shooting the moment they saw an enemy silhouette , when night began to fall .
cf02.64.0	ref	Above decks on the John Harvey , Lieutenant Richardson gazed at the lights still burning on the port wall and felt uneasy .
cf02.64.1	pre-adj2	On the John Harvey above decks , Lieutenant Richardson gazed at the lights still burning on the port wall and felt uneasy .
cf02.65.0	ref	There were lights glinting in the city , too , even though it was now dark enough for a few stars to become visible .
cf02.65.1	post-adv	Even though it was now dark enough for a few stars to become visible , there were lights glinting in the city , too .
cf02.66.0	ref	Bari was asking for it , he thought .
cf02.66.1	quote	Bari was asking for it , thought he .
cf02.70.0	ref	The burden of his secret was pressing down on him , as it was on Lieutenant Beckstrom and his six enlisted men .
cf02.70.1	post-adv	The burden of his secret , as it was on Lieutenant Beckstrom and his six enlisted men , was pressing down on him .
cf02.72.0	ref	They seemed happy at the delay in unloading , glad at the chance to go ashore in a lively liberty port such as Bari .
cf02.72.1	post-adj2	They seemed happy at the delay in unloading , glad at the chance to go in a lively liberty port such as Bari ashore .
cf02.73.0	ref	Nine of them had gone down the gangplank already .
cf02.73.1	post-adj2	Nine of them had gone already down the gangplank .
cf02.88.0	ref	He snatched at it savagely .
cf02.88.1	post-adj2	He snatched savagely at it .
cf02.101.0	ref	Unsinkable slowed and stopped , hundreds of brilliant white flares swayed eerily down from the black , the air raid sirens ashore rose in a keening shriek , the anti-aircraft guns coughed and chattered -- and above it all motors roared and the bombs came whispering and wailing and crashing down among the ships at anchor at Bari .
cf02.101.1	post-adj2	Unsinkable slowed and stopped , hundreds of brilliant white flares swayed down from the black eerily , the air raid sirens ashore rose in a keening shriek , the anti-aircraft guns coughed and chattered -- and above it all motors roared and the bombs came whispering and wailing and crashing down among the ships at anchor at Bari .
cf02.106.0	ref	After the first two were blacked out , the third light was abandoned by a terrified Italian crew , who left their light to shine for nine minutes like an unerring homing beacon until British MP 's shot it out .
cf02.106.1	post-adv	After the first two were blacked out , the third light was abandoned by a terrified Italian crew , who left their light until British MP 's shot it out to shine for nine minutes like an unerring homing beacon .
cf02.106.2	pre-adv	The third light was abandoned by a terrified Italian crew , who left their light to shine for nine minutes like an unerring homing beacon until British MP 's shot it out , after the first two were blacked out .
cf02.111.0	ref	They got it over the side and clambered aboard only a few minutes before their schooner went under .
cf02.111.1	post-adv	They only a few minutes before their schooner went under got it over the side and clambered aboard .
cf02.112.0	ref	John Bascom went down early , too .
cf02.112.1	post-adj3	John Bascom went early down , too .
cf02.112.2	post-adj3	John Bascom went too early , down .
cf02.112.3	post-adj3	John Bascom went down too , early .
cf02.112.4	post-adj3	John Bascom went , too , down early .
cf02.112.5	post-adj3	John Bascom went early , too down .
cf02.117.0	ref	Norton and Rochford fired wildly at the sounds of the motors .
cf02.117.1	post-adj2	Norton and Rochford fired at the sounds of the motors wildly .
cf02.118.0	ref	Bishop rushed on deck to grab a 20-mm gun , pumping out 400 rounds before sticks of three bombs each crashed into Holds One , Three and Five .
cf02.118.1	post-adv	Bishop rushed on deck to grab a 20-mm gun , before sticks of three bombs each crashed into Holds One , Three and Five pumping out 400 rounds .
cf02.120.0	ref	Luckily , she was not completely aflame and would go down before the gasoline could erupt .
cf02.120.1	post-adv	Luckily , she was not completely aflame and before the gasoline could erupt would go down .
cf03.1.0	ref	There is a pause in the merriment as your friends gaze at you , wondering why you are staring , open-mouthed in amazement .
cf03.1.1	post-adv	As your friends gaze at you , wondering why you are staring , open-mouthed in amazement there is a pause in the merriment .
cf03.2.0	ref	You explain , `` I have the strangest feeling of having lived through this very same event before .
cf03.2.1	post-adj2	You explain , `` I have the strangest feeling of having lived before through this very same event .
cf03.5.0	ref	Emerson , in his lecture , refers to the `` startling experience which almost every person confesses in daylight , that particular passages of conversation and action have occurred to him in the same order before , whether dreaming or waking , a suspicion that they have been with precisely these persons in precisely this room , and heard precisely this dialogue , at some former hour , they know not when '' .
cf03.5.1	post-adv	Emerson , in his lecture , refers to the `` startling experience which almost every person confesses in daylight , that particular passages of conversation and action , whether dreaming or waking , have occurred to him in the same order before , a suspicion that they have been with precisely these persons in precisely this room , and heard precisely this dialogue , at some former hour , they know not when '' .
cf03.6.0	ref	Most psychiatrists dismiss these instances of that weird feeling as the deja vue -LRB- already seen -RRB- illusion , just as they dismiss dream previsions as coincidences .
cf03.6.1	post-adv	Just as they dismiss dream previsions as coincidences , most psychiatrists dismiss these instances of that weird feeling as the deja vue -LRB- already seen -RRB- illusion .
cf03.8.0	ref	When a man recognizes a certain experience as the exact pattern of a previous dream , we have an instance of deja vue , except for the fact that he knows just why the experience seems familiar .
cf03.8.1	pre-adv	We have an instance of deja vue , except for the fact that he knows just why the experience seems familiar , when a man recognizes a certain experience as the exact pattern of a previous dream .
cf03.9.0	ref	Occasionally there are examples of pre-vision which can not be pushed aside without confessing an unscientific attitude .
cf03.9.1	post-adj2	Occasionally there are examples of pre-vision which can not be pushed without confessing an unscientific attitude aside .
cf03.10.0	ref	One day Maeterlinck , coming with a friend upon an event which he recognized as the exact pattern of a previous dream , detailed the ensuing occurrences in advance so accurately that his companion was completely mystified .
cf03.10.1	post-adj2	One day Maeterlinck , coming upon an event which he recognized as the exact pattern of a previous dream with a friend , detailed the ensuing occurrences in advance so accurately that his companion was completely mystified .
cf03.11.0	ref	Rudyard Kipling 's scorn for the `` jargon '' of psychical research was altered somewhat when he wondered `` how , or why , had I been shown an unreleased roll of my life film '' ?
cf03.11.1	post-adv	Rudyard Kipling 's scorn for the `` jargon '' of psychical research when he wondered `` how , or why , had I been shown an unreleased roll of my life film '' was altered somewhat ?
cf03.12.0	ref	The famous author tells us of the strange incident in Something About Myself .
cf03.12.1	post-adj2	The famous author tells us in Something About Myself of the strange incident .
cf03.13.0	ref	One day when he attended a war memorial ceremony in Westminster Abbey his view was obstructed by a stout man on his left , his attention turned to the irregular pattern of the rough slab flooring and someone , clasping him by the arm , whispered , `` I want a word with you , please '' .
cf03.13.1	pre-adv	One day his view was obstructed by a stout man on his left when he attended a war memorial ceremony in Westminster Abbey , his attention turned to the irregular pattern of the rough slab flooring and someone , clasping him by the arm , whispered , `` I want a word with you , please '' .
cf03.15.0	ref	Freud probably contributed more than anyone else to the understanding of dreams , enabling us to recognize their equivalents in our wakeful thoughts .
cf03.15.1	post-adj2	Freud probably contributed to the understanding of dreams more than anyone else , enabling us to recognize their equivalents in our wakeful thoughts .
cf03.21.0	ref	And when psychology explains glibly , `` but the subconscious mind is able to produce it '' it refers to a mental region so vaguely identified that it may embrace the entire universal mind as conceivably as part of the individual mind .
cf03.21.1	pre-adv	And it refers to a mental region so vaguely identified that it may embrace the entire universal mind as conceivably as part of the individual mind when psychology explains glibly , `` but the subconscious mind is able to produce it '' .
cf03.25.0	ref	Every dream , and this is true of a mental image of any type even though it may be readily interpreted into its equivalent of wakeful thought , is a psychic phenomenon for which no explanation is available .
cf03.25.1	post-adv	Every dream , even though it may be readily interpreted into its equivalent of wakeful thought and this is true of a mental image of any type , is a psychic phenomenon for which no explanation is available .
cf03.28.0	ref	For instance , the dreamer sees himself seated behind neighbor Smith and , with photographic realism , sees Smith driving the car ; whereas , it is a matter of fact that Smith can not drive a car .
cf03.28.1	post-adv	For instance , the dreamer whereas , it is a matter of fact that Smith can not drive a car sees himself seated behind neighbor Smith and , with photographic realism , sees Smith driving the car .
cf03.31.0	ref	A `` mental image '' subconsciously impressing us from beneath its language symbols in wakeful thought , or consciously in light sleep , is actually not an image at all but is comprised of realities , viewed not in the concurrent sensory stream , but within the depths of the fourth dimension .
cf03.31.1	post-adj2	A `` mental image '' subconsciously impressing us in wakeful thought from beneath its language symbols , or consciously in light sleep , is actually not an image at all but is comprised of realities , viewed not in the concurrent sensory stream , but within the depths of the fourth dimension .
cf03.32.0	ref	Dreams that display events of the future with photographic detail call for a theory explaining their basic mystery and all its components , including that weird feeling of deja vue , inevitably fantastic though that theory must seem .
cf03.32.1	post-adv	Inevitably fantastic though that theory must seem , dreams that display events of the future with photographic detail call for a theory explaining their basic mystery and all its components , including that weird feeling of deja vue .
cf03.35.0	ref	The opening paragraph of the chapter titled The Theory Of Representative Perception , in the book Philosophies Of Science by Albert G. Ramsperger says , `` passed on to the brain , and there , by some unexplained process , it causes the mind to have a perception '' .
cf03.35.1	pre-adj2	The opening paragraph of the chapter titled The Theory Of Representative Perception , in the book Philosophies Of Science by Albert G. Ramsperger says , `` passed on to the brain , and by some unexplained process , there , it causes the mind to have a perception '' .
cf03.35.2	post-adj2	The opening paragraph of the chapter titled The Theory Of Representative Perception , in the book Philosophies Of Science by Albert G. Ramsperger says , `` passed to the brain on , and there , by some unexplained process , it causes the mind to have a perception '' .
cf03.37.0	ref	As retinal images are conceded to be an integral function of the brain it seems logical to suppose that the nerves , between the inner brain and the eyes , carry the direct drive for cooperation from the various brain centers -- rather than to theorize on the transmission of an image which is already in required location .
cf03.37.1	pre-adv	It seems logical to suppose that the nerves , between the inner brain and the eyes , carry the direct drive for cooperation from the various brain centers -- rather than to theorize on the transmission of an image which is already in required location as retinal images are conceded to be an integral function of the brain .
cf03.40.0	ref	We know that the number of radio and television impulses , sound waves , ultra-violet rays , etc. , that may occupy the very same space , each solitary upon its own frequency , is infinite .
cf03.40.1	post-adv	We know that the number of radio and television impulses , sound waves , ultra-violet rays , etc. , that , each solitary upon its own frequency , may occupy the very same space , is infinite .
cf03.42.0	ref	This theory makes it possible for any event throughout eternity to be continuously available at any moment to consciousness .
cf03.42.1	post-adj2	This theory makes it possible for any event throughout eternity to be continuously available to consciousness at any moment .
cf03.46.0	ref	Three seconds flat is the usual time , and the space is crossed by moderate mileage , while the overwhelming immensity of such journeys must be conceived as a static pulsation through an enormous number of coexistent frequencies which perpetuate all events .
cf03.46.1	post-adv	Three seconds flat is the usual time , and the space , while the overwhelming immensity of such journeys must be conceived as a static pulsation through an enormous number of coexistent frequencies which perpetuate all events , is crossed by moderate mileage .
cf03.48.0	ref	The senses in each counterpart bear the impression only of phenomena that share its own frequency , whereas those upon all other frequencies are invisible , inaudible and intactible to them .
cf03.48.1	post-adv	Whereas those upon all other frequencies are invisible , inaudible and intactible to them , the senses in each counterpart bear the impression only of phenomena that share its own frequency .
cf03.50.0	ref	When consciousness deserts the sleeping body and the wakeful world , it continues in the myriad progressions of the ever-present past and future , in a life as vibrant and real as the one left when the body tired and required sleep .
cf03.50.1	post-adv	When consciousness deserts the sleeping body and the wakeful world , it continues in the myriad progressions of the ever-present past and future , in a life as vibrant and real as when the body tired and required sleep the one left .
cf03.50.2	pre-adv	It continues in the myriad progressions of the ever-present past and future , in a life as vibrant and real as the one left when the body tired and required sleep , when consciousness deserts the sleeping body and the wakeful world .
cf03.51.0	ref	If the photographically realistic continuity of dreams , however bizarre their combinations , denies that it is purely a composition of the brain , it must be compounded from views of diverse realities , although some of them may never be encountered in what we are pleased to call the real life .
cf03.51.1	post-adv	If the photographically realistic continuity of dreams , however bizarre their combinations , denies that it is purely a composition of the brain , it must , although some of them may never be encountered in what we are pleased to call the real life , be compounded from views of diverse realities .
cf03.51.2	pre-adv	It must be compounded from views of diverse realities , although some of them may never be encountered in what we are pleased to call the real life , if the photographically realistic continuity of dreams , however bizarre their combinations , denies that it is purely a composition of the brain .
cf03.52.0	ref	Dr. H.V. Hilprecht , Professor of Assyrian at the University of Pennsylvania , dreamed that a Babylonian priest , associated with the king Kurigalzu , -LRB- 1300 B.C. -RRB- escorted him to the treasure chamber of the temple of Bel , gave him six novel points of information about a certain broken relic , and corrected an error in its identification .
cf03.52.1	dat-np-np	Dr. H.V. Hilprecht , Professor of Assyrian at the University of Pennsylvania , dreamed that a Babylonian priest , associated with the king Kurigalzu , -LRB- 1300 B.C. -RRB- escorted him to the treasure chamber of the temple of Bel , gave six novel points of information about a certain broken relic to him , and corrected an error in its identification .
cf03.53.0	ref	As a matter of fact , the incorrect classification , the result of many weeks of labor by Dr. Hilprecht , was about to be published by him the following day .
cf03.53.1	post-adj2	As a matter of fact , the incorrect classification , the result of many weeks of labor by Dr. Hilprecht , was about to be published the following day by him .
cf03.62.0	ref	Probably less than one percent of our previsions escape final obliteration before we wake .
cf03.62.1	post-adv	Before we wake probably less than one percent of our previsions escape final obliteration .
cf03.63.0	ref	When we arrive at the events concerned in the vanished majority , they , of course , can not impress us as anything familiar .
cf03.63.1	pre-adv	They , of course , can not impress us as anything familiar , when we arrive at the events concerned in the vanished majority .
cf03.64.0	ref	Nevertheless , there are notably frequent instances of deja vue , in which our recognition of an entirely novel event is a feeling of having lived through it before , a feeling which , though vague , withstands the verbal barrage from the most impressive corps of psychologists .
cf03.64.1	pre-adv	Nevertheless , there are notably frequent instances of deja vue , in which our recognition of an entirely novel event is a feeling of having lived through it before , a feeling which , withstands the verbal barrage from the most impressive corps of psychologists , though vague .
cf03.64.2	post-adj2	Nevertheless , there are notably frequent instances of deja vue , in which our recognition of an entirely novel event is a feeling of having lived before through it , a feeling which , though vague , withstands the verbal barrage from the most impressive corps of psychologists .
cf03.65.0	ref	If deja vue is an illusion , then peculiarly , it is a most prevalent mental disturbance affecting even the most level-headed people .
cf03.65.1	pre-adj2	If deja vue is an illusion , peculiarly then , it is a most prevalent mental disturbance affecting even the most level-headed people .
cf03.65.2	pre-adv	Then peculiarly , it is a most prevalent mental disturbance affecting even the most level-headed people , if deja vue is an illusion .
cf03.66.0	ref	Chauncey Depew , one-time runner-up for the Republican Presidential nomination , was attending a convention at Saratoga , where he was scheduled to nominate Colonel Theodore Roosevelt for Governor of New York when he noticed that the temporary chairman was a man he had never met .
cf03.66.1	post-adv	Chauncey Depew , one-time runner-up for the Republican Presidential nomination , when he noticed that the temporary chairman was a man he had never met was attending a convention at Saratoga , where he was scheduled to nominate Colonel Theodore Roosevelt for Governor of New York .
cf03.67.0	ref	After the preliminary business affair was finished Depew arose and delivered the convincing speech that clinched the nomination for Roosevelt .
cf03.67.1	pre-adv	Depew arose and delivered the convincing speech that clinched the nomination for Roosevelt after the preliminary business affair was finished .
cf03.68.0	ref	If Depew had told any academic psychologist that he had a weird feeling of having lived through that identical convention session at some time in the past , he would have been informed that he was a victim of deja vue .
cf03.68.1	pre-adv	He would have been informed that he was a victim of deja vue , if Depew had told any academic psychologist that he had a weird feeling of having lived through that identical convention session at some time in the past .
cf03.68.2	post-adj2	If Depew had told any academic psychologist that he had a weird feeling of having lived at some time in the past through that identical convention session , he would have been informed that he was a victim of deja vue .
cf03.70.0	ref	He remembered exactly when he had lived through it before , and he had something to prove he had .
cf03.70.1	post-adj2	He remembered exactly when he had lived before through it , and he had something to prove he had .
cf04.4.0	ref	Because the food is selected with thought for its nutritional value , care for its origin , and prepared in a manner that retains the most nutrients , the food does taste good .
cf04.4.1	pre-adv	The food does taste good , because the food is selected with thought for its nutritional value , care for its origin , and prepared in a manner that retains the most nutrients .
cf04.5.0	ref	When served in a psychological atmosphere that allows young bodies to assimilate the greatest good from what they eat because they are free from tension , a foundation is laid for a high level of health that releases the children from physical handicaps to participate with enjoyment in the work assignments , the athletic programs and the most important phase , the educational opportunities .
cf04.5.1	post-adv	When served in a psychological atmosphere that because they are free from tension allows young bodies to assimilate the greatest good from what they eat , a foundation is laid for a high level of health that releases the children from physical handicaps to participate with enjoyment in the work assignments , the athletic programs and the most important phase , the educational opportunities .
cf04.5.2	pre-adv	A foundation is laid for a high level of health that releases the children from physical handicaps to participate with enjoyment in the work assignments , the athletic programs and the most important phase , the educational opportunities , when served in a psychological atmosphere that allows young bodies to assimilate the greatest good from what they eat because they are free from tension .
cf04.9.0	ref	The Director , Walter E. Clark , believes that a school with children living full time in its care must take full responsibility for their welfare .
cf04.9.1	post-adj2	The Director , Walter E. Clark , believes that a school with children living in its care full time must take full responsibility for their welfare .
cf04.13.0	ref	The school has always maintained a farm to supply the needs of the school .
cf04.13.1	post-adv	The school to supply the needs of the school has always maintained a farm .
cf04.18.0	ref	`` To give up these notions required a revolution in thought '' , Mr. Clark said in reminiscing about the abrupt changes in ideas he experienced when he began reading `` Organic Gardening '' And `` Modern Nutrition '' in a search for help with his problems .
cf04.18.1	post-adv	`` To give up these notions required a revolution in thought '' , Mr. Clark said in reminiscing about the abrupt changes in ideas when he began reading `` Organic Gardening '' And `` Modern Nutrition '' in a search for help with his problems he experienced .
cf04.18.2	quote	`` To give up these notions required a revolution in thought '' , said Mr. Clark in reminiscing about the abrupt changes in ideas he experienced when he began reading `` Organic Gardening '' And `` Modern Nutrition '' in a search for help with his problems .
cf04.23.0	ref	The basis for compost materials already existed on the school farm with a stable of animals for the riding program , poultry for eggs , pigs to eat garbage , a beef herd and wastes of all kinds .
cf04.23.1	post-adj2	The basis for compost materials already existed with a stable of animals for the riding program , poultry for eggs , pigs to eat garbage , a beef herd and wastes of all kinds on the school farm .
cf04.24.0	ref	Separate pails were kept in the kitchen for coffee grounds and egg shells .
cf04.24.1	post-adj2	Separate pails were kept for coffee grounds and egg shells in the kitchen .
cf04.28.0	ref	Soon after the method changed , visitors began asking how he managed to irrigate his soil to keep it looking moist , when in reality , it was the soil treatment alone that accomplished this .
cf04.28.1	post-adv	When in reality , it was the soil treatment alone that accomplished this , soon after the method changed , visitors began asking how he managed to irrigate his soil to keep it looking moist .
cf04.28.2	pre-adv	Visitors began asking how he managed to irrigate his soil to keep it looking moist , when in reality , it was the soil treatment alone that accomplished this , soon after the method changed .
cf04.29.0	ref	To demonstrate the soil of his vegetable gardens as it is today , Mr. Clark stooped to scoop up a handful of rich dark earth .
cf04.29.1	post-adv	As it is today to demonstrate the soil of his vegetable gardens , Mr. Clark stooped to scoop up a handful of rich dark earth .
cf04.33.0	ref	The garden supplies enough carrots , turnips , rutabagas , potatoes , beets , cabbage and squash to store for winter meals in the root cellar .
cf04.33.1	post-adj2	The garden supplies enough carrots , turnips , rutabagas , potatoes , beets , cabbage and squash to store in the root cellar for winter meals .
cf04.41.0	ref	`` Adults take a long time to convince and you are thwarted if you try to push '' .
cf04.41.1	post-adv	`` Adults take a long time to convince and you if you try to push are thwarted '' .
cf04.50.0	ref	Once the grains are ground , vitamin E begins to deteriorate immediately and half of it is lost by oxidation and exposure to the air within one week .
cf04.50.1	pre-adv	Vitamin E begins to deteriorate immediately , once the grains are ground , and half of it is lost by oxidation and exposure to the air within one week .
cf04.58.0	ref	`` Lillian 's bread is so good and everything tastes so much better here that it is hard not to eat too much '' , said the secretary ruefully eyeing her extra pounds .
cf04.58.1	iquote	`` Lillian 's bread is so good and everything tastes so much better here that it is hard not to eat too much '' , the secretary said ruefully eyeing her extra pounds .
cf04.60.0	ref	The school has not used cold prepared cereals for years , though at one time that was all they ever served .
cf04.60.1	post-adv	The school , though at one time that was all they ever served , has not used cold prepared cereals for years .
cf04.61.0	ref	When the chance came , they first eliminated cold cereal once a week , then gradually converted to hot fresh-ground cereal every day .
cf04.61.1	pre-adv	They first eliminated cold cereal once a week , then gradually converted to hot fresh-ground cereal every day , when the chance came .
cf04.65.0	ref	When they leave for vacations they miss the hot cereal .
cf04.65.1	pre-adv	They miss the hot cereal , when they leave for vacations .
cf04.81.0	ref	Also , salt water fish is on the table once a week .
cf04.81.1	post-adj2	Also , salt water fish is once a week on the table .
cf04.83.0	ref	Most other desserts are fruit in some form , fresh fruits once daily at least , sometimes at snack time .
cf04.83.1	post-adv	Fresh fruits once daily at least , sometimes at snack time , most other desserts are fruit in some form .
cf04.86.0	ref	Oranges and grapefruit are shipped from Florida weekly from an organic farm .
cf04.86.1	post-adj3	Oranges and grapefruit are shipped weekly from Florida from an organic farm .
cf04.86.2	post-adj3	Oranges and grapefruit are shipped from an organic farm weekly from Florida .
cf04.86.3	post-adj3	Oranges and grapefruit are shipped from Florida from an organic farm weekly .
cf04.86.4	post-adj3	Oranges and grapefruit are shipped from an organic farm from Florida weekly .
cf04.86.5	post-adj3	Oranges and grapefruit are shipped weekly from an organic farm from Florida .
cf04.89.0	ref	Following a talk by Mr. Clark at the New York State Natural Food Associates Convention , a man from the audience offered to ship his unsprayed apples to the school from Vermont .
cf04.89.1	post-adj2	Following a talk by Mr. Clark at the New York State Natural Food Associates Convention , a man from the audience offered to ship his unsprayed apples from Vermont to the school .
cf04.91.0	ref	Miss Colman hopes to find suitable shakers so that kelp can be available at the tables .
cf04.91.1	post-adv	Miss Colman hopes so that kelp can be available at the tables to find suitable shakers .
cf04.99.0	ref	Since Mr. Clark believes firmly that the chewing of hard foods helps develop healthy gums and teeth , raw vegetables and raw whole-wheat grains are handed out with fresh fruit and whole-wheat cookies at snack time in the afternoons .
cf04.99.1	pre-adv	Raw vegetables and raw whole-wheat grains are handed out with fresh fruit and whole-wheat cookies at snack time in the afternoons , since Mr. Clark believes firmly that the chewing of hard foods helps develop healthy gums and teeth .
cf04.104.0	ref	Maple syrup is made by the children in the woods on the school grounds .
cf04.104.1	post-adj2	Maple syrup is made in the woods on the school grounds by the children .
cf04.111.0	ref	Soup is often the important dish at supper .
cf04.111.1	post-adj2	Soup is at supper the important dish often .
cf04.113.0	ref	The school finds that the children are satisfied with smaller amounts of food since all of it is high in quality .
cf04.113.1	post-adv	The school finds that the children since all of it is high in quality are satisfied with smaller amounts of food .
cf04.116.0	ref	Even before he saw the necessity of growing better food and planning good nutrition , Mr. Clark felt the school had a good health program .
cf04.116.1	pre-adv	Mr. Clark felt the school had a good health program , even before he saw the necessity of growing better food and planning good nutrition .
cf04.120.0	ref	Since the change to better nutrition , he feels he can report on improvements in health , though he considers the following statements observations and not scientific proof .
cf04.120.1	post-adv	Though he considers the following statements observations and not scientific proof , since the change to better nutrition , he feels he can report on improvements in health .
cf05.2.0	ref	Wires whined as a cold November blast rocked the silver wings , but the engine roar was reassuring to the pilot bundled in the open cockpit .
cf05.2.1	post-adv	As a cold November blast rocked the silver wings wires whined , but the engine roar was reassuring to the pilot bundled in the open cockpit .
cf05.3.0	ref	He peered ahead and grinned as the railroad tracks came into view again below .
cf05.3.1	post-adv	He as the railroad tracks came into view again below peered ahead and grinned .
cf05.6.0	ref	The girders of a shattered Dog River bridge lay strewn for half a mile downstream .
cf05.6.1	post-adj2	The girders of a shattered Dog River bridge lay strewn downstream for half a mile .
cf05.9.0	ref	Rain of near cloudburst proportions had fallen for three full days and it was still raining on the morning of Friday , November 4 , 1927 , when officials of the Post Office Department 's Railway Mail Service realized that their distribution system for Vermont had been almost totally destroyed overnight .
cf05.9.1	post-adv	Rain of near cloudburst proportions had fallen for three full days and it , when officials of the Post Office Department 's Railway Mail Service realized that their distribution system for Vermont had been almost totally destroyed overnight , was still raining on the morning of Friday , November 4 , 1927 .
cf05.11.0	ref	The state 's railroad system counted miles of broken bridges and missing rights-of-way : it would obviously remain out of commission for weeks .
cf05.11.1	post-adj2	The state 's railroad system counted miles of broken bridges and missing rights-of-way : it would obviously remain for weeks out of commission .
cf05.12.0	ref	And once medicine , food , clothing and shelter had been provided for the flood 's victims , communications and the mail were the next top problems .
cf05.12.1	pre-adv	And communications and the mail were the next top problems , once medicine , food , clothing and shelter had been provided for the flood 's victims .
cf05.13.0	ref	From Burlington , outgoing mail could be ferried across Lake Champlain to the railroad at Port Kent , N. Y .
cf05.13.1	post-adj2	From Burlington , outgoing mail could be ferried to the railroad at Port Kent , N. Y across Lake Champlain .
cf05.16.0	ref	When Governor Al Smith offered New York National Guard planes to fly the mail in and out of the state , it seemed a likely temporary solution , easing Burlington 's bottleneck and that at Montpelier too .
cf05.16.1	pre-adv	It seemed a likely temporary solution , easing Burlington 's bottleneck and that at Montpelier too , when Governor Al Smith offered New York National Guard planes to fly the mail in and out of the state .
cf05.19.0	ref	Burlington aviator John J. Burns suggested the parade ground southwest of Fort Ethan Allen , and soon a dozen hastily-summoned National Guard pilots were bringing their wide-winged `` Jenny '' and DeHaviland two-seaters to rest on the frozen sod of the military base .
cf05.19.1	post-adj2	Burlington aviator John J. Burns suggested the parade ground southwest of Fort Ethan Allen , and soon a dozen hastily-summoned National Guard pilots were bringing their wide-winged `` Jenny '' and DeHaviland two-seaters on the frozen sod of the military base to rest .
cf05.24.0	ref	Though the makeshift airports were ready , the York State Guard flyers proved unable to keep any kind of mail schedule .
cf05.24.1	pre-adv	The York State Guard flyers proved unable to keep any kind of mail schedule , though the makeshift airports were ready .
cf05.27.0	ref	They had to act fast , for letters were clogging the terminals .
cf05.27.1	post-adv	For letters were clogging the terminals , they had to act fast .
cf05.30.0	ref	Piloting a Curtiss Navy MF flying boat off Lake Winnipesaukee in 1925 , he had inaugurated the original Rural Delivery air service in America .
cf05.30.1	post-adj2	Piloting a Curtiss Navy MF flying boat in 1925 off Lake Winnipesaukee , he had inaugurated the original Rural Delivery air service in America .
cf05.36.0	ref	As a matter of fact , Fogg and his plane did n't get beyond Pennsylvania in the race -- an engine oil leak forced him down -- but the flying service and school he started subsequently were first steps in paying off his wry-faced backers .
cf05.36.1	post-adj2	As a matter of fact , Fogg and his plane did n't get in the race beyond Pennsylvania -- an engine oil leak forced him down -- but the flying service and school he started subsequently were first steps in paying off his wry-faced backers .
cf05.40.0	ref	The first few days Bob Fogg set his plane down on Towne field back of the State House when the wind was right , and used Wilson flat above Barre when it was n't .
cf05.40.1	post-adv	The first few days Bob Fogg when the wind was right set his plane down on Towne field back of the State House , and used Wilson flat above Barre when it was n't .
cf05.40.2	post-adv	The first few days Bob Fogg when it was n't set his plane down on Towne field back of the State House when the wind was right , and used Wilson flat above Barre .
cf05.44.0	ref	And besides you seem to make it all right here '' .
cf05.44.1	post-adj2	And besides you seem to make it here all right '' .
cf05.46.0	ref	After a week of precarious uphill landings and downwind takeoffs , Fogg one day looked down at the shattered yellow wreckage of an Army plane strewn across snow-covered Towne field .
cf05.46.1	post-adj2	After a week of precarious uphill landings and downwind takeoffs , Fogg one day looked at the shattered yellow wreckage of an Army plane strewn across snow-covered Towne field down .
cf05.47.0	ref	Sent to Montpelier by Secretary Herbert Hoover , Red Cross Aide Reuben Sleight had been killed , and his pilot , Lt. Franklin Wolfe , badly injured .
cf05.47.1	post-adj2	Sent by Secretary Herbert Hoover to Montpelier , Red Cross Aide Reuben Sleight had been killed , and his pilot , Lt. Franklin Wolfe , badly injured .
cf05.48.0	ref	With the field a blur of white the unfortunate pilot had simply flown into the hillside .
cf05.48.1	pre-adv	The unfortunate pilot had simply flown into the hillside with the field a blur of white .
cf05.50.0	ref	A long flat known as the St. John field seemed to answer their purpose , and since the Winooski bridges were at last passable , they decided to use it .
cf05.50.1	pre-adv	A long flat known as the St. John field seemed to answer their purpose , and they decided to use it , since the Winooski bridges were at last passable .
cf05.53.0	ref	With these aids , and a pair of skiis substituting for wheels on the Waco , Bob Fogg made the first landing on what is now part of the Barre-Montpelier Airport on November 21 , 1927 .
cf05.53.1	post-adj2	With these aids , and a pair of skiis substituting on the Waco for wheels , Bob Fogg made the first landing on what is now part of the Barre-Montpelier Airport on November 21 , 1927 .
cf05.54.0	ref	Each trip saw the front cockpit filled higher with mail pouches .
cf05.54.1	post-adj2	Each trip saw the front cockpit filled with mail pouches higher .
cf05.56.0	ref	Since Fogg 's was a one-man , one-plane flying service , this meant that he would have to do both trips , flying alone 600 miles a day , under sub-freezing temperature conditions .
cf05.56.1	pre-adv	This meant that he would have to do both trips , flying alone 600 miles a day , under sub-freezing temperature conditions , since Fogg 's was a one-man , one-plane flying service .
cf05.56.2	post-adj2	Since Fogg 's was a one-man , one-plane flying service , this meant that he would have to do both trips , flying under sub-freezing temperature conditions 600 miles a day , alone .
cf05.57.0	ref	Over the weeks , America 's first Star Route Air Mail settled into a routine pattern despite the vagaries of weather and the lack of ground facilities and aids to navigation .
cf05.57.1	post-adj2	Over the weeks , America 's first Star Route Air Mail settled despite the vagaries of weather and the lack of ground facilities and aids to navigation into a routine pattern .
cf05.58.0	ref	Each morning at five Fogg crawled out of bed to bundle into flying togs over the furnace register of his home .
cf05.58.1	pre-adj2	At five each morning Fogg crawled out of bed to bundle into flying togs over the furnace register of his home .
cf05.62.0	ref	As daylight began to show through the frosty windows , Fogg would place a call to William A. Shaw at the U.S. Weather Station at Northfield , Vermont , for temperature and wind-velocity readings .
cf05.62.1	pre-adv	Fogg would place a call to William A. Shaw at the U.S. Weather Station at Northfield , Vermont , for temperature and wind-velocity readings , as daylight began to show through the frosty windows .
cf05.63.0	ref	Shaw could also give the flyer a pretty good idea of area visibility by a visual check of the mountains to be seen from his station .
cf05.63.1	dat-np-np	Shaw could also give a pretty good idea of area visibility to the flyer by a visual check of the mountains to be seen from his station .
cf05.66.0	ref	Out at the airport each morning , Fogg 's skilled mechanic Caleb Marston would have the Waco warmed up and running in the drafty hangar .
cf05.66.1	pre-adj2	Each morning out at the airport , Fogg 's skilled mechanic Caleb Marston would have the Waco warmed up and running in the drafty hangar .
cf05.70.0	ref	Sometimes the pilot had to turn back if fully blocked by fog , but 85 % of his trips were completed .
cf05.70.1	post-adv	If fully blocked by fog sometimes the pilot had to turn back , but 85 % of his trips were completed .
cf05.73.0	ref	When driving rain or mist socked in one valley , Fogg would chandelle up and over to reverse course and try another one , ranging from the Ottauquechee up to Danville in search of safe passage through the mountain passes .
cf05.73.1	pre-adv	Fogg would chandelle up and over to reverse course and try another one , ranging from the Ottauquechee up to Danville in search of safe passage through the mountain passes , when driving rain or mist socked in one valley .
cf05.75.0	ref	It ticked over smoothly , idling while Fogg exchanged mails with the armed messenger from Burlington at Fort Ethan Allen , and one from Montpelier and Barre at the St. John field .
cf05.75.1	post-adv	It ticked over smoothly , while Fogg exchanged mails with the armed messenger from Burlington at Fort Ethan Allen , and one from Montpelier and Barre at the St. John field idling .
cf05.76.0	ref	Sometimes , on a return trip , the aviator would `` go upstairs '' high over the clouds .
cf05.76.1	pre-adj2	On a return trip , sometimes , the aviator would `` go upstairs '' high over the clouds .
cf05.77.0	ref	There he 'd take a compass reading , figure his air speed , and deduce that in a certain number of minutes he 'd be over the broad meadows of the Merrimack Valley where it would be safe to let down through the overcast and see the ground before it hit him .
cf05.77.1	post-adv	There he 'd take a compass reading , figure his air speed , and deduce that in a certain number of minutes he 'd be over the broad meadows of the Merrimack Valley where it would be safe to before it hit him let down through the overcast and see the ground .
cf05.81.0	ref	Day after day Fogg shuttled back and forth on his one-man air mail route , until the farmers in their snowy barnyards and the road repairmen came to recognize the stubby plane as their link with the rest of the country .
cf05.81.1	post-adv	Until the farmers in their snowy barnyards and the road repairmen came to recognize the stubby plane as their link with the rest of the country , day after day Fogg shuttled back and forth on his one-man air mail route .
cf05.81.2	post-adj2	Day after day Fogg shuttled on his one-man air mail route back and forth , until the farmers in their snowy barnyards and the road repairmen came to recognize the stubby plane as their link with the rest of the country .
cf05.83.0	ref	At Fort Ethan Allen the ever-present wind off Lake Champlain could readily flip a puny man-made thing like an airplane if the pilot miscalculated .
cf05.83.1	post-adv	At Fort Ethan Allen the ever-present wind off Lake Champlain if the pilot miscalculated could readily flip a puny man-made thing like an airplane .
cf05.84.0	ref	Once the soldiers from the barracks had to hold the ship from blowing away while Fogg revved the engine and got the tail up .
cf05.84.1	post-adv	Once the soldiers from the barracks had while Fogg revved the engine and got the tail up to hold the ship from blowing away .
cf05.87.0	ref	One afternoon during a cold , powdery snowstorm , Fogg took off for Concord from the St. John field .
cf05.87.1	pre-adj2	During a cold , powdery snowstorm one afternoon , Fogg took off for Concord from the St. John field .
cf05.87.2	post-adj2	One afternoon during a cold , powdery snowstorm , Fogg took off from the St. John field for Concord .
cf06.3.0	ref	Yes , retirement seems to creep upon you suddenly .
cf06.3.1	post-adj2	Yes , retirement seems to creep suddenly upon you .
cf06.5.0	ref	We always thought we would die with our boots on .
cf06.5.1	post-adv	We always thought we with our boots on would die .
cf06.13.0	ref	You 've thought about it before in a hazy sort of way .
cf06.13.1	post-adj3	You 've thought before about it in a hazy sort of way .
cf06.13.2	post-adj3	You 've thought in a hazy sort of way before about it .
cf06.13.3	post-adj3	You 've thought about it in a hazy sort of way before .
cf06.13.4	post-adj3	You 've thought in a hazy sort of way about it before .
cf06.13.5	post-adj3	You 've thought before in a hazy sort of way about it .
cf06.23.0	ref	If so , you are of the old school .
cf06.23.1	pre-adv	You are of the old school , if so .
cf06.31.0	ref	However , the last few years of your life , things seem to be changing .
cf06.31.1	pre-adj2	The last few years of your life , however , things seem to be changing .
cf06.43.0	ref	When a plan burst its seams , hasty conferences supply the necessary patch , and life goes merrily on .
cf06.43.1	pre-adv	Hasty conferences supply the necessary patch , when a plan burst its seams , and life goes merrily on .
cf06.43.2	post-adj2	When a plan burst its seams , hasty conferences supply the necessary patch , and life goes on merrily .
cf06.64.0	ref	But , if you do , your life will be just one thing -- unhappiness -- complete and unabridged .
cf06.64.1	pre-adv	But your life will be just one thing -- unhappiness -- complete and unabridged , if you do .
cf06.72.0	ref	Find out what you like to do most and really give it a whirl .
cf06.72.1	dat-np-np	Find out what you like to do most and really give a whirl to it .
cf06.73.0	ref	If you ca n't think of a thing to do , try something -- anything .
cf06.73.1	pre-adv	Try something -- anything , if you ca n't think of a thing to do .
cf06.84.0	ref	If you do , go to it .
cf06.84.1	pre-adv	Go to it , if you do .
cf06.87.0	ref	Where sewing is concerned , I 'm a total loss .
cf06.87.1	pre-adv	I 'm a total loss , where sewing is concerned .
cf06.88.0	ref	When you see a needle in my hands you will know the family buttons have fallen off and I have to sew them back on , or get out the safety pins .
cf06.88.1	pre-adv	You will know the family buttons have fallen off and I have to sew them back on , or get out the safety pins when you see a needle in my hands .
cf06.93.0	ref	Some people love to crack tile and it 's amazing what beautiful designs they come up with as a result of their cracking good time .
cf06.93.1	post-adj2	Some people love to crack tile and it 's amazing what beautiful designs they come up as a result of their cracking good time with .
cf06.96.0	ref	There is always an open market for this sort of delicacy , in spite of low calorie diets , cottage cheese and hands-off-all-sweets to the contrary .
cf06.96.1	post-adj2	There is in spite of low calorie diets , cottage cheese and hands-off-all-sweets to the contrary an open market for this sort of delicacy , always .
cf06.100.0	ref	Outside of cutting your fingers , maybe you would come up with nothing at all , but then again , you might turn out some dandy little gadgets .
cf06.100.1	pre-adj2	Maybe , outside of cutting your fingers you would come up with nothing at all , but then again , you might turn out some dandy little gadgets .
cf06.102.0	ref	They love to dust , scrub , polish , wax floors , move the furniture around from place to place , take down the curtains , put up new ones and have themselves a real ball .
cf06.102.1	post-adj2	They love to dust , scrub , polish , wax floors , move the furniture from place to place around , take down the curtains , put up new ones and have themselves a real ball .
cf06.105.0	ref	I can look at furniture in one spot year in and year out and really feel for sure that 's where it belongs .
cf06.105.1	post-adj2	I can look year in and year out at furniture in one spot and really feel for sure that 's where it belongs .
cf06.107.0	ref	This gives you a wide and varied choice .
cf06.107.1	dat-np-np	This gives a wide and varied choice to you .
cf06.109.0	ref	Ever since I was a child , I have always had a yen to try my hand at writing .
cf06.109.1	pre-adv	I have always had a yen to try my hand at writing , ever since I was a child .
cf06.110.0	ref	If you do decide to write , you will soon become acquainted with rejection slips and dejection .
cf06.110.1	pre-adv	You will soon become acquainted with rejection slips and dejection , if you do decide to write .
cf06.127.0	ref	As for me , I am holding in reserve two huge puzzles -LRB- I love puzzles -RRB- to put together when time hangs heavy on my hands .
cf06.127.1	post-adv	As for me , I am holding in reserve two huge puzzles -LRB- I love puzzles -RRB- when time hangs heavy on my hands to put together .
cf06.131.0	ref	Travel , if you can .
cf06.131.1	post-adv	If you can , travel .
cf06.137.0	ref	What does it mean to be creative , a term we hear with increasing frequency these days ?
cf06.137.1	post-adj2	What does it mean to be creative , a term we hear these days with increasing frequency ?
cf06.138.0	ref	When we turn to Noah Webster we find him helpful as usual .
cf06.138.1	pre-adv	We find him helpful as usual when we turn to Noah Webster .
cf06.140.0	ref	We are creative , it seems , when we produce something which has not previously existed .
cf06.140.1	post-adv	When we produce something which has not previously existed we are creative , it seems .
cf06.142.0	ref	All living creatures from the lowest form of insect or animal life evidence the power of creativity , if it is only to reproduce a form like their own .
cf06.142.1	post-adv	If it is only to reproduce a form like their own , all living creatures from the lowest form of insect or animal life evidence the power of creativity .
cf06.143.0	ref	While man shares this procreative function with all his predecessors in the evolutionary process , he is the only animal with a true non-instinctive and conscious creative ability .
cf06.143.1	pre-adv	He is the only animal with a true non-instinctive and conscious creative ability , while man shares this procreative function with all his predecessors in the evolutionary process .
cf06.144.0	ref	An animal , bird or insect creates either a burrow , or nest or hive in unending sameness according to specie .
cf06.144.1	post-adj2	An animal , bird or insect creates either a burrow , or nest or hive according to specie in unending sameness .
cf06.146.0	ref	This gives him the power to form in his mind new image combinations of old memories , ideas and experiences and to project them outside of himself into his environment in new and ever-changing forms .
cf06.146.1	dat-np-np	This gives the power to form in his mind new image combinations of old memories , ideas and experiences and to project them outside of himself into his environment in new and ever-changing forms to him .
cf06.149.0	ref	The vision of a Lord Tennyson expressed in a poem 100 years ago took visible form over London in the air blitzes of 1941 .
cf06.149.1	post-adj2	The vision of a Lord Tennyson expressed 100 years ago in a poem took visible form over London in the air blitzes of 1941 .
cf06.152.0	ref	Not only can man project his imagination out into his environment in concrete forms , but even more importantly , he can turn it inward to help create new and better forms of himself .
cf06.152.1	post-adj2	Not only can man project his imagination in concrete forms out into his environment , but even more importantly , he can turn it inward to help create new and better forms of himself .
cf06.156.0	ref	We must realize with Prof. Charles Morris in his The Open Self that `` Man is the being that can continually remake himself , the artisan that is himself the material for his own creation '' .
cf06.156.1	post-adj2	We must realize in his The Open Self with Prof. Charles Morris that `` Man is the being that can continually remake himself , the artisan that is himself the material for his own creation '' .
cf06.157.0	ref	So far in history man has been too greatly over-occupied with projecting things into his environment rather than first creating the sort of person who can make the highest use of the things he has created .
cf06.157.1	pre-adj2	In history so far man has been too greatly over-occupied with projecting things into his environment rather than first creating the sort of person who can make the highest use of the things he has created .
cf07.4.0	ref	Various factors in the setting can still be of great advantage in making the first intercourse a good rather than a bad memory for one or both .
cf07.4.1	dat-np-np	Various factors in the setting can still be of great advantage in making a good rather than a bad memory for one or both to the first intercourse .
cf07.7.0	ref	If the wedding party lasted late , and the travel schedule means there are only a few hours before resuming the trip or making an early start , the husband may forestall tensions and uncertainties by confiding to his bride that lying in each other 's arms will be bliss enough for these few hours .
cf07.7.1	pre-adv	The husband may forestall tensions and uncertainties by confiding to his bride that lying in each other 's arms will be bliss enough for these few hours , if the wedding party lasted late , and the travel schedule means there are only a few hours before resuming the trip or making an early start .
cf07.8.0	ref	The consummation should come at the next stopping place when they have a long private time -LRB- day or night -RRB- for that purpose .
cf07.8.1	post-adv	The consummation when they have a long private time -LRB- day or night -RRB- for that purpose should come at the next stopping place .
cf07.10.0	ref	One thing should be clear to both husband and wife -- neither pain nor profuse bleeding has to occur when the hymen is ruptured during the first sex act .
cf07.10.1	post-adv	One thing should be clear to both husband and wife -- when the hymen is ruptured during the first sex act neither pain nor profuse bleeding has to occur .
cf07.14.0	ref	Often it is thin and fragile and gives way readily to the male organ at the first attempt at intercourse .
cf07.14.1	post-adj3	Often it is thin and fragile and gives way to the male organ readily at the first attempt at intercourse .
cf07.14.2	post-adj3	Often it is thin and fragile and gives way at the first attempt at intercourse to the male organ readily .
cf07.14.3	post-adj3	Often it is thin and fragile and gives way readily at the first attempt at intercourse to the male organ .
cf07.14.4	post-adj3	Often it is thin and fragile and gives way , at the first attempt at intercourse , readily to the male organ .
cf07.14.5	post-adj3	Often it is thin and fragile and gives way to the male organ at the first attempt at intercourse readily .
cf07.15.0	ref	As might be expected , girls in this situation bleed very little and perhaps not at all in the process of losing their virginity .
cf07.15.1	pre-adv	Girls in this situation bleed very little and perhaps not at all in the process of losing their virginity , as might be expected .
cf07.15.2	post-adj2	As might be expected , girls in this situation bleed in the process of losing their virginity very little and perhaps not at all .
cf07.16.0	ref	It is also important to realize that many girls are born without a hymen or at most only a tiny trace of one ; so that the absence of the hymen is by no means positive proof that a girl has had sex relations .
cf07.16.1	post-adv	It is also important to realize that many girls so that the absence of the hymen is by no means positive proof that a girl has had sex relations are born without a hymen or at most only a tiny trace of one .
cf07.21.0	ref	These cases , for all their rarity , are so dramatic that friends and relations repeat the story until the general population may get an entirely false notion of how often the hymen is a serious problem to newly-weds .
cf07.21.1	post-adv	These cases , for all their rarity , are so dramatic that until the general population may get an entirely false notion of how often the hymen is a serious problem to newly-weds friends and relations repeat the story .
cf07.22.0	ref	In recent times , when sexual matters began to be discussed more scientifically and more openly , the emotional aspects of virginity received considerable attention .
cf07.22.1	pre-adv	In recent times the emotional aspects of virginity received considerable attention , when sexual matters began to be discussed more scientifically and more openly .
cf07.26.0	ref	If he foresaw any problem because of the quality of the hymen , it was recommended that simple procedures be undertaken at once to incise the hymen or , preferably , to dilate it .
cf07.26.1	pre-adv	It was recommended that simple procedures be undertaken at once to incise the hymen or , preferably , to dilate it , if he foresaw any problem because of the quality of the hymen .
cf07.30.0	ref	This is obvious when it is remembered that , during childbirth , the vagina must dilate enough to permit the passage of the baby .
cf07.30.1	post-adv	When it is remembered that , during childbirth , the vagina must dilate enough to permit the passage of the baby this is obvious .
cf07.33.0	ref	That is , when first penetration takes place , the pressure and pain signals may involuntarily cause all the vaginal muscles to contract in an effort to bar the intrusion and prevent further pain .
cf07.33.1	pre-adv	That is the pressure and pain signals may involuntarily cause all the vaginal muscles to contract in an effort to bar the intrusion and prevent further pain , when first penetration takes place .
cf07.35.0	ref	Since it is a purely professional situation , none of the pain is associated with love-making or the beloved .
cf07.35.1	pre-adv	None of the pain is associated with love-making or the beloved , since it is a purely professional situation .
cf07.41.0	ref	When no medical problems exist , the newly married couple generally prefer to cope with the adjustments of their new relationship by themselves .
cf07.41.1	pre-adv	The newly married couple generally prefer to cope with the adjustments of their new relationship by themselves , when no medical problems exist .
cf07.41.2	post-adj2	When no medical problems exist , the newly married couple generally prefer to cope by themselves with the adjustments of their new relationship .
cf07.43.0	ref	Folk-lore , superstition and remembered passages from erotic literature can create physical and emotional problems if blindly taken as scientific facts and useful hints .
cf07.43.1	post-adv	Folk-lore , superstition and remembered passages from erotic literature if blindly taken as scientific facts and useful hints can create physical and emotional problems .
cf07.48.0	ref	But during the same examination , two fingers may be inserted along the posterior wall -LRB- the bottom of the vagina in the same position -RRB- without any pain ; and in fact without any difficulty if the pressure is kept downward at all times .
cf07.48.1	post-adv	But during the same examination , two fingers may if the pressure is kept downward at all times be inserted along the posterior wall -LRB- the bottom of the vagina in the same position -RRB- without any pain ; and in fact without any difficulty .
cf07.48.2	post-adj2	But during the same examination , two fingers may be inserted without any pain ; and in fact without any difficulty along the posterior wall -LRB- the bottom of the vagina in the same position -RRB- if the pressure is kept downward at all times .
cf07.50.0	ref	The husband and wife should start with this anatomical information clearly in mind .
cf07.50.1	post-adv	The husband and wife with this anatomical information clearly in mind should start .
cf07.51.0	ref	They may then adjust their positions and movements to avoid too much pressure on the urethra and the anterior wall of the vagina ; at least until repeated intercourse has dilated it and pain is no longer a possible threat against the full pleasure of love-making .
cf07.51.1	post-adv	They at least until repeated intercourse has dilated it and pain is no longer a possible threat against the full pleasure of love-making may then adjust their positions and movements to avoid too much pressure on the urethra and the anterior wall of the vagina .
cf07.53.0	ref	Locker-room talk often stresses the idea that a man is doing the girl a favor if he is forceful and ruthless during the first penetration .
cf07.53.1	dat-np-np	Locker-room talk often stresses the idea that a man is doing a favor to the girl if he is forceful and ruthless during the first penetration .
cf07.53.2	post-adv	Locker-room talk often stresses the idea that a man if he is forceful and ruthless during the first penetration is doing the girl a favor .
cf07.54.0	ref	The false reasoning is that a gradual advance prolongs the pain while a swift powerful act gets it over with and leaves the girl pleased with his virility and grateful for his decisiveness in settling the problem once and for all .
cf07.54.1	post-adv	The false reasoning is that while a swift powerful act gets it over with and leaves the girl pleased with his virility and grateful for his decisiveness in settling the problem once and for all a gradual advance prolongs the pain .
cf07.58.0	ref	The pain and distress associated with the performance may easily give the wife a deep-seated dread of marital relations and cause her , unconsciously , to make the sex act unpleasant and difficult for both by exercising her vaginal muscles to complicate his penetration instead of relaxing them to facilitate it .
cf07.58.1	dat-np-np	The pain and distress associated with the performance may easily give a deep-seated dread of marital relations to the wife and cause her , unconsciously , to make the sex act unpleasant and difficult for both by exercising her vaginal muscles to complicate his penetration instead of relaxing them to facilitate it .
cf07.64.0	ref	The signals to proceed may therefore come when he is momentarily not able to take advantage of them .
cf07.64.1	post-adv	The signals to proceed when he is momentarily not able to take advantage of them may therefore come .
cf07.68.0	ref	Now while he uses talk , caresses or requires caresses from her , his bride will sympathetically understand the situation and eagerly help him restore his physical situation so they can have the consummation they both so eagerly desire .
cf07.68.1	post-adv	Now while he uses talk , caresses or requires caresses from her , his bride will sympathetically understand the situation and eagerly help so they can have the consummation they both so eagerly desire him restore his physical situation .
cf07.68.2	pre-adv	Now his bride will sympathetically understand the situation and eagerly help him restore his physical situation so they can have the consummation they both so eagerly desire , while he uses talk , caresses or requires caresses from her .
cf07.70.0	ref	The accumulated information on this point shows that first intercourse , even when it is achieved with minimum pain or difficulty , is seldom an overwhelming sexual experience to a woman .
cf07.70.1	pre-adv	The accumulated information on this point shows that first intercourse is seldom an overwhelming sexual experience to a woman , even when it is achieved with minimum pain or difficulty .
cf07.74.0	ref	If the early approaches are wise , understanding and patient , the satisfactions of marital fulfillment will probably be discovered before the marriage is much older .
cf07.74.1	post-adv	If the early approaches are wise , understanding and patient , the satisfactions of marital fulfillment will probably before the marriage is much older be discovered .
cf07.74.2	pre-adv	The satisfactions of marital fulfillment will probably be discovered before the marriage is much older , if the early approaches are wise , understanding and patient .
cf07.80.0	ref	Whereas persons of eighth grade education or less were more apt to avoid or be shocked by nudity , those educated beyond the eighth grade increasingly welcomed and approved nudity in sexual relations .
cf07.80.1	pre-adv	Those educated beyond the eighth grade increasingly welcomed and approved nudity in sexual relations , whereas persons of eighth grade education or less were more apt to avoid or be shocked by nudity .
cf07.81.0	ref	Such understanding helps to explain why one matron celebrating thirty-five years of married life could declare with some pride that her husband had `` never seen her entirely naked '' , while another woman , boasting an equal number of years of married life , is proud of having `` shared the nudist way of life -- the really free , natural nude life -- for most of that period '' .
cf07.81.1	post-adv	Such understanding helps to explain why one matron celebrating thirty-five years of married life , while another woman , boasting an equal number of years of married life , is proud of having `` shared the nudist way of life -- the really free , natural nude life -- for most of that period '' , could declare with some pride that her husband had `` never seen her entirely naked '' .
cf07.85.0	ref	One is always a little surprised to bump into such individual distinctions when it is unexpected .
cf07.85.1	post-adv	One is always a little surprised when it is unexpected to bump into such individual distinctions .
cf08.14.0	ref	Beyond a certain point , of course , no woman can be dominant -- nature has seen to that .
cf08.14.1	pre-adj2	Of course , beyond a certain point , no woman can be dominant -- nature has seen to that .
cf08.17.0	ref	Yet even in these marriages , psychologists say , wives are asserting themselves more strongly .
cf08.17.1	pre-adj2	Even in these marriages yet , psychologists say , wives are asserting themselves more strongly .
cf08.21.0	ref	Our society has `` emancipated '' the woman , giving her new independence and new authority .
cf08.21.1	dat-np-np	Our society has `` emancipated '' the woman , giving new independence and new authority to her .
cf08.23.0	ref	`` The sexual relationship does not exist in a vacuum '' , declares Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone , medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and author of the recent book , Release From Sexual Tensions .
cf08.23.1	iquote	`` The sexual relationship does not exist in a vacuum '' , Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone , medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and author of the recent book , Release From Sexual Tensions declares .
cf08.28.0	ref	When a husband is sexually selfish and heedless of his wife 's desires , she is cheated of the fulfillment and pleasure nature intended for her .
cf08.28.1	pre-adv	She is cheated of the fulfillment and pleasure nature intended for her , when a husband is sexually selfish and heedless of his wife 's desires .
cf08.32.0	ref	`` A marriage can survive almost any kind of stress except an open and direct challenge to the husband 's maleness '' , declares Dr. Calderone .
cf08.32.1	iquote	`` A marriage can survive almost any kind of stress except an open and direct challenge to the husband 's maleness '' , Dr. Calderone declares .
cf08.34.0	ref	`` When the roles of husband and wife are reversed , so that the wife becomes leader and the husband follower '' , Dr. Linden says , `` the effects on their whole relationship , sexual and otherwise , can be disastrous '' .
cf08.34.1	post-adv	`` When the roles of husband and wife , so that the wife becomes leader and the husband follower , are reversed '' , Dr. Linden says , `` the effects on their whole relationship , sexual and otherwise , can be disastrous '' .
cf08.34.2	pre-adv	Dr. Linden says , `` the effects on their whole relationship , sexual and otherwise , can be disastrous `` when the roles of husband and wife are reversed , so that the wife becomes leader and the husband follower '' .
cf08.35.0	ref	In one extreme case , cited by a Pittsburgh psychologist , an office worker 's wife refused to have sexual relations with her husband unless he bought her the luxuries she demanded .
cf08.35.1	post-adv	Unless he bought her the luxuries she demanded in one extreme case , cited by a Pittsburgh psychologist , an office worker 's wife refused to have sexual relations with her husband .
cf08.38.0	ref	While he was in custody his wife divorced him .
cf08.38.1	pre-adv	His wife divorced him , while he was in custody .
cf08.45.0	ref	After every money argument , she rebuffed her husband 's overtures until the matter was settled in her favor .
cf08.45.1	post-adv	Until the matter was settled in her favor after every money argument , she rebuffed her husband 's overtures .
cf08.51.0	ref	Hemmed in on the job and unable to assert himself , he uses the sex act so he can be supreme in at least one area .
cf08.51.1	post-adv	So he can be supreme in at least one area hemmed in on the job and unable to assert himself , he uses the sex act .
cf08.51.2	post-adj2	Hemmed on the job in and unable to assert himself , he uses the sex act so he can be supreme in at least one area .
cf08.52.0	ref	More often , though , he is so accustomed to submitting to authority on the job without argument that he lives by the same rule at home .
cf08.52.1	pre-adj2	Though , more often , he is so accustomed to submitting to authority on the job without argument that he lives by the same rule at home .
cf08.52.2	post-adj3	More often , though , he is so accustomed to submitting on the job to authority without argument that he lives by the same rule at home .
cf08.52.3	post-adj3	More often , though , he is so accustomed to submitting without argument on the job to authority that he lives by the same rule at home .
cf08.52.4	post-adj3	More often , though , he is so accustomed to submitting to authority without argument on the job that he lives by the same rule at home .
cf08.52.5	post-adj3	More often , though , he is so accustomed to submitting without argument to authority on the job that he lives by the same rule at home .
cf08.52.6	post-adj3	More often , though , he is so accustomed to submitting on the job without argument to authority that he lives by the same rule at home .
cf08.53.0	ref	Some psychologists , in fact , suggest that career-bound husbands often are more to blame for topsy-turvy marriages than their wives .
cf08.53.1	post-adj2	Some psychologists , in fact , suggest that career-bound husbands often are than their wives to blame for topsy-turvy marriages more .
cf08.54.0	ref	The wife 's attempt at control , these psychologists contend , is sometimes merely a pathetic effort to compel her husband to pay as much attention to her as he does to his job .
cf08.54.1	post-adj2	The wife 's attempt at control , these psychologists contend , is merely sometimes a pathetic effort to compel her husband to pay as much attention to her as he does to his job .
cf08.56.0	ref	Unless her husband also desires sex , the act can not be consummated .
cf08.56.1	pre-adv	The act can not be consummated , unless her husband also desires sex .
cf08.58.0	ref	`` The pattern '' , says Dr. Morton Schillinger , psychologist at New York 's Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy , `` is for the husband to hover about anxiously and eagerly , virtually trembling in his hope that she will flash him the signal that tonight is the night '' .
cf08.58.1	post-adj2	`` The pattern '' , says Dr. Morton Schillinger , psychologist at New York 's Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy , `` is for the husband to hover anxiously and eagerly about , virtually trembling in his hope that she will flash him the signal that tonight is the night '' .
cf08.60.0	ref	After all , the henpecked husband with his shrewish wife is a comic figure of long standing , in literature and on the stage , as Dr. Schillinger points out .
cf08.60.1	post-adv	As Dr. Schillinger points out , after all , the henpecked husband with his shrewish wife is a comic figure of long standing , in literature and on the stage .
cf08.61.0	ref	There is no evidence that these Milquetoasts became suddenly emboldened when they crossed the threshhold of the master bedroom .
cf08.61.1	post-adv	There is no evidence that these Milquetoasts when they crossed the threshhold of the master bedroom became suddenly emboldened .
cf08.66.0	ref	Asked why , he replied primly : `` Because that 's no activity for a gentleman '' .
cf08.66.1	post-adv	`` Because that 's no activity for a gentleman '' asked why , he replied primly .
cf08.70.0	ref	This carried over into the more urbanized late 19th and early 20th centuries , when the man ruled the roost in the best bull-roaring Life With Father manner .
cf08.70.1	post-adj2	This carried into the more urbanized late 19th and early 20th centuries , when the man ruled the roost in the best bull-roaring Life With Father manner over .
cf08.72.0	ref	`` Grandma was n't expected to like it '' , Dr. Marion Hilliard , the late Toronto gynecologist , once summed up the attitude of the '90s .
cf08.72.1	quote	`` Grandma was n't expected to like it '' , once summed Dr. Marion Hilliard , the late Toronto gynecologist up the attitude of the '90s .
cf08.78.0	ref	Left alone while her husband was miles away in the city , the modern wife assumed more and more duties normally reserved for the male .
cf08.78.1	post-adv	While her husband was miles away in the city left alone , the modern wife assumed more and more duties normally reserved for the male .
cf08.79.0	ref	Circumstances gave her almost undisputed sway over child-rearing , money-handling and home maintenance .
cf08.79.1	dat-np-np	Circumstances gave almost undisputed sway over child-rearing , money-handling and home maintenance to her .
cf08.82.0	ref	`` Very few wives '' , says Dr. Calderone , `` who balance the checkbook , fix the car , choose where the family will live and deal with the tradesmen , are suddenly going to become submissive where sex is concerned .
cf08.82.1	post-adv	`` Very few wives '' , says Dr. Calderone , `` who balance the checkbook , fix the car , choose where the family will live and deal with the tradesmen , are suddenly going where sex is concerned to become submissive .
cf08.92.0	ref	`` When the husband becomes passive in the face of his wife 's aggressiveness '' , Dr. Linden says , `` the wife , in turn , finds him inadequate .
cf08.92.1	pre-adv	Dr. Linden says , `` the wife , in turn , finds him inadequate `` when the husband becomes passive in the face of his wife 's aggressiveness '' .
cf08.94.0	ref	One such wife , Dr. Linden says , became disgusted with her weak husband and flurried through a series of extramarital affairs in the hope of finding a stronger man .
cf08.94.1	post-adj2	One such wife , Dr. Linden says , became disgusted with her weak husband and flurried in the hope of finding a stronger man through a series of extramarital affairs .
cf08.95.0	ref	But her personality was such that each affair lasted only until that lover , too , had been conquered and reduced to passivity .
cf08.95.1	post-adv	But her personality was such that only until that lover , too , had been conquered and reduced to passivity each affair lasted .
cf08.97.0	ref	In some cases , however , domination of the sex act by one partner can be temporary , triggered by a passing but urgent emotional need .
cf08.97.1	pre-adj2	However , in some cases , domination of the sex act by one partner can be temporary , triggered by a passing but urgent emotional need .
cf08.99.0	ref	If his on-the-job problems work out , he may return to his old pattern .
cf08.99.1	pre-adv	He may return to his old pattern , if his on-the-job problems work out .
cf08.100.0	ref	Sometimes a burst of aggressiveness will sweep over a man -- or his wife -- because he or she feels age creeping up .
cf08.100.1	post-adv	Sometimes a burst of aggressiveness because he or she feels age creeping up will sweep over a man -- or his wife .
cf08.102.0	ref	Or a wife may make sudden demands that she be courted , flattered or coaxed , simply because she needs her ego lifted .
cf08.102.1	post-adv	Or a wife , simply because she needs her ego lifted , may make sudden demands that she be courted , flattered or coaxed .
cf08.104.0	ref	`` As long as the couple is in agreement in their approach to sex , it makes little difference if one or the other dominates '' , Dr. Calderone declares .
cf08.104.1	post-adv	`` If one or the other dominates as long as the couple is in agreement in their approach to sex , it makes little difference '' , Dr. Calderone declares .
cf08.104.2	quote	`` As long as the couple is in agreement in their approach to sex , it makes little difference if one or the other dominates '' , declares Dr. Calderone .
cf08.106.0	ref	Other experts say , however , that if sexual domination by one or the other partner exists for longer than a brief period , it is likely to shake the marriage .
cf08.106.1	pre-adv	Other experts say , however , that it is likely to shake the marriage , if sexual domination by one or the other partner exists for longer than a brief period .
cf08.107.0	ref	And just as domination today often begins with the wife , so the cure generally must lie with the husband .
cf08.107.1	pre-adv	And so the cure generally must lie with the husband , just as domination today often begins with the wife .
cf08.109.0	ref	He must begin , paradoxically , by becoming more selfish .
cf08.109.1	post-adj2	He must begin , by becoming more selfish , paradoxically .
cf09.1.0	ref	She gave herself a title , Lady Diana Harrington .
cf09.1.1	dat-np-np	She gave a title , Lady Diana Harrington to herself .
cf09.2.0	ref	The New York D.A. gave her another , The Golden Girl of cafe society .
cf09.2.1	dat-np-np	The New York D.A. gave another , The Golden Girl of cafe society to her .
cf09.3.0	ref	Houston police gave her a third , less flamboyant , title , prostitute .
cf09.3.1	dat-np-np	Houston police gave a third , less flamboyant , title , prostitute to her .
cf09.4.0	ref	And Houston police have the final say in the matter since she died there on September 20 , 1960 , `` Diane Harris Graham , 30 , D.O.A. , circumstances -- unusual '' .
cf09.4.1	post-adv	Since she died there on September 20 , 1960 and Houston police have the final say in the matter , `` Diane Harris Graham , 30 , D.O.A. , circumstances -- unusual '' .
cf09.4.2	post-adj2	And Houston police have the final say in the matter since she died on September 20 , 1960 there , `` Diane Harris Graham , 30 , D.O.A. , circumstances -- unusual '' .
cf09.6.0	ref	She was still in the play for pay business when she died , a top trollop who had given the world 's oldest profession one of its rare flashes of glamour .
cf09.6.1	dat-np-np	She was still in the play for pay business when she died , a top trollop who had given one of its rare flashes of glamour to the world 's oldest profession .
cf09.6.2	post-adv	When she died , she was still in the play for pay business a top trollop who had given the world 's oldest profession one of its rare flashes of glamour .
cf09.8.0	ref	Her neighbors in the expensive Houston apartment building told reporters that the ash-blonde beauty had talked at times about her past as `` the Golden Girl of the Mickey Jelke trial '' .
cf09.8.1	post-adj2	Her neighbors in the expensive Houston apartment building told reporters that the ash-blonde beauty had talked about her past as `` the Golden Girl of the Mickey Jelke trial '' at times .
cf09.10.0	ref	-LRB- Jelke later served 21 months when he was found guilty of masterminding a ring of high-priced call girls . -RRB-
cf09.10.1	post-adv	-LRB- When he was found guilty of masterminding a ring of high-priced call girls Jelke later served 21 months . -RRB-
cf09.11.0	ref	Diane was needed as a material witness in the case and New York police searched three continents before they found her in their own back yard -- in a swank hotel , of course .
cf09.11.1	post-adv	Diane was needed as a material witness in the case and before they found her in their own back yard -- in a swank hotel , of course New York police searched three continents .
cf09.12.0	ref	She had been moving in cafe society as Lady Diana Harrington , a name that made some of the gossip columns .
cf09.12.1	post-adj2	She had been moving as Lady Diana Harrington , a name that made some of the gossip columns in cafe society .
cf09.19.0	ref	She was in Egypt during the revolution and had passport difficulty .
cf09.19.1	post-adj2	She was during the revolution in Egypt and had passport difficulty .
cf09.20.0	ref	She lied in order to get it .
cf09.20.1	post-adv	In order to get it she lied .
cf09.23.0	ref	`` Our information is that she gave the proceeds of her acts to Jelke '' .
cf09.23.1	dat-np-pp	`` Our information is that she gave Jelke the proceeds of her acts '' .
cf09.26.0	ref	I never gave that boy a cent .
cf09.26.1	dat-np-np	I never gave a cent to that boy .
cf09.27.0	ref	I am not a prostitute , and I had only one very wealthy boy friend '' , she said .
cf09.27.1	quote	I am not a prostitute , and I had only one very wealthy boy friend '' , said she .
cf09.29.0	ref	`` Diane is the type of girl '' , Jelke said , `` who would n't get loving -- even on her wedding night -- unless you piled up all your money in the middle of the floor '' .
cf09.29.1	post-adv	`` Diane is the type of girl '' , Jelke said , `` who -- unless you piled up all your money in the middle of the floor -- would n't get loving -- even on her wedding night '' .
cf09.31.0	ref	She came to New York from Detroit as a teenager , but with a `` sponsor '' instead of a chaperone .
cf09.31.1	post-adj3	She came from Detroit to New York as a teenager , but with a `` sponsor '' instead of a chaperone .
cf09.31.2	post-adj3	She came as a teenager , but with a `` sponsor '' instead of a chaperone from Detroit to New York .
cf09.31.3	post-adj3	She came to New York as a teenager , but with a `` sponsor '' instead of a chaperone from Detroit .
cf09.31.4	post-adj3	She came as a teenager , but with a `` sponsor '' instead of a chaperone to New York from Detroit .
cf09.31.5	post-adj3	She came from Detroit as a teenager , but with a `` sponsor '' instead of a chaperone to New York .
cf09.32.0	ref	As she told it , `` He 's a rich boy friend , an old guy about 60 '' .
cf09.32.1	pre-adv	`` He 's a rich boy friend , an old guy about 60 , as she told it '' .
cf09.38.0	ref	An ex-fighter was introduced to her in a bar as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' .
cf09.38.1	post-adj3	An ex-fighter was introduced in a bar to her as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' .
cf09.38.2	post-adj3	An ex-fighter was introduced as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' in a bar to her .
cf09.38.3	post-adj3	An ex-fighter was introduced to her as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' in a bar .
cf09.38.4	post-adj3	An ex-fighter was introduced as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' to her in a bar .
cf09.38.5	post-adj3	An ex-fighter was introduced in a bar as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' to her .
cf09.40.0	ref	`` I 'd love to audition for you '' , she gushed .
cf09.40.1	quote	`` I 'd love to audition for you '' , gushed she .
cf09.41.0	ref	The audition was held a few minutes later in somebody 's apartment .
cf09.41.1	post-adj2	The audition was held in somebody 's apartment a few minutes later .
cf09.43.0	ref	After a few minutes he said , `` I ca n't use you if you dance like that .
cf09.43.1	post-adv	After a few minutes he said , `` I if you dance like that ca n't use you .
cf09.49.0	ref	When the date would try to bid her good-night at the door , she would tell him , `` If you go home now , I 'll scream '' .
cf09.49.1	post-adv	When the date would try to bid her good-night at the door , she , if you go home now , would tell him , `` I 'll scream '' .
cf09.49.2	pre-adv	She would tell him , `` If you go home now , I 'll scream '' , when the date would try to bid her good-night at the door .
cf09.49.3	pre-adv	When the date would try to bid her good-night at the door , she would tell him , `` I 'll scream , if you go home now '' .
cf09.56.0	ref	The Greek evidently fell for her , `` Monsieur X '' recounted , and to clinch what he thought was an affair in the making he gave her 100,000 francs -LRB- about $ 300 -RRB- and led her to the roulette tables .
cf09.56.1	dat-np-np	The Greek evidently fell for her , `` Monsieur X '' recounted , and to clinch what he thought was an affair in the making he gave 100,000 francs -LRB- about $ 300 -RRB- to her and led her to the roulette tables .
cf09.57.0	ref	She could do no wrong at the tables that time .
cf09.57.1	dat-np-np	She could do that time at the tables to no wrong .
cf09.57.2	post-adj2	She could do no wrong that time at the tables .
cf09.59.0	ref	Smarter than most gamblers , she slipped away from the casino , packed her bag and took the night train to Paris .
cf09.59.1	post-adj2	Smarter than most gamblers , she slipped from the casino away , packed her bag and took the night train to Paris .
cf09.63.0	ref	To climax her Roman revels , she was thrown out of the swanky Hotel Excelsior after she had run naked through its marble halls screaming for help .
cf09.63.1	post-adv	To climax her Roman revels , she after she had run naked through its marble halls screaming for help was thrown out of the swanky Hotel Excelsior .
cf09.68.0	ref	The hotel staff , as well as residents of the Excelsior , told us they saw that both ladies were bleeding from scratches as they were seen fleeing down the hall .
cf09.68.1	post-adv	The hotel staff , as well as residents of the Excelsior , told us they saw that both ladies as they were seen fleeing down the hall were bleeding from scratches .
cf09.73.0	ref	`` You ca n't do this to us '' , Diane screamed .
cf09.73.1	quote	`` You ca n't do this to us '' , screamed Diane .
cf09.79.0	ref	She thought royal status might come her way when , while she was still in Rome , she met Pulley Bey , a personal procurer to King Farouk of Egypt .
cf09.79.1	post-adv	She thought royal status when , while she was still in Rome , she met Pulley Bey , a personal procurer to King Farouk of Egypt might come her way .
cf09.79.2	pre-adv	She thought royal status might come her way when , she met Pulley Bey , a personal procurer to King Farouk of Egypt , while she was still in Rome .
cf09.79.3	post-adj2	She thought royal status might come her way when , while she was in Rome still , she met Pulley Bey , a personal procurer to King Farouk of Egypt .
cf09.84.0	ref	`` Pulley Bey insisted that she bestow her favors on him '' , the friend continued .
cf09.84.1	quote	`` Pulley Bey insisted that she bestow her favors on him '' , continued the friend .
cf09.91.0	ref	The roof was about ready to fall in on Diane 's little world , but it took nothing less than the Egyptian revolution to bring it down .
cf09.91.1	post-adj2	The roof was about ready to fall on Diane 's little world in , but it took nothing less than the Egyptian revolution to bring it down .
cf09.92.0	ref	When Farouk was overthrown , police picked up his personal pimp , Pulley Bey .
cf09.92.1	pre-adv	Police picked up his personal pimp , Pulley Bey , when Farouk was overthrown .
cf09.93.0	ref	They also called upon Diane with a request for a look at her passport .
cf09.93.1	post-adj2	They also called with a request for a look at her passport upon Diane .
cf09.94.0	ref	The cagey Pulley Bey , who spoke no English , had taken the passport so that Diane could n't leave the country without his approval .
cf09.94.1	post-adv	The cagey Pulley Bey , who spoke no English , so that Diane could n't leave the country without his approval had taken the passport .
cf09.98.0	ref	It is a tribute to her talents that she was able to talk the District Attorney into having her removed from the prison to a hotel room , with her meals taken at Vesuvio 's , an excellent Italian restaurant .
cf09.98.1	post-adv	It is a tribute to her talents that she was able to talk the District Attorney into having , with her meals taken at Vesuvio 's , an excellent Italian restaurant , her removed from the prison to a hotel room .
cf09.104.0	ref	Houston police got to know Diane two years ago when the vice squad picked her up for questioning about a call girl ring .
cf09.104.1	post-adv	When the vice squad picked her up for questioning about a call girl ring Houston police got to know Diane two years ago .
cf09.109.0	ref	McClellan , who had once lost his medical license temporarily on a charge of drug addiction , was with her when she died .
cf09.109.1	post-adv	When she died McClellan , who had once lost his medical license temporarily on a charge of drug addiction , was with her .
cf09.110.0	ref	He had been in the apartment two days and was hazy about what had happened during that time .
cf09.110.1	post-adj2	He had been two days in the apartment and was hazy about what had happened during that time .
cf09.111.0	ref	When he realized she was dead , he called two lawyers and then the police .
cf09.111.1	pre-adv	He called two lawyers and then the police , when he realized she was dead .
cf09.112.0	ref	When the police arrived , they found McClellan and the two lawyers sitting and staring silently .
cf09.112.1	pre-adv	They found McClellan and the two lawyers sitting and staring silently , when the police arrived .
cf09.117.0	ref	`` I think that maybe she wanted it this way '' , a vice squad cop said .
cf09.117.1	quote	`` I think that maybe she wanted it this way '' , said a vice squad cop .
cf09.119.0	ref	She was on the junk , and they slide fast when that happens .
cf09.119.1	post-adv	She was on the junk , and when that happens they slide fast .
cf09.123.0	ref	We cater mostly to nice people in the $ 5-8,000 annual income bracket and we run a string of snazzy , neon-lit , chromium-plated suburban stores .
cf09.123.1	post-adj2	We cater to nice people in the $ 5-8,000 annual income bracket mostly and we run a string of snazzy , neon-lit , chromium-plated suburban stores .
cf09.127.0	ref	People come to me with confidence .
cf09.127.1	post-adj2	People come with confidence to me .
cf10.1.0	ref	Franklin D. Lee proved a man of prompt action when Mrs. Claire Shaefer , accompanied by a friend , visited him in Bakersfield , California , several months ago as a prospective patient .
cf10.1.1	post-adv	When Mrs. Claire Shaefer , accompanied by a friend , visited him in Bakersfield , California , several months ago as a prospective patient Franklin D. Lee proved a man of prompt action .
cf10.2.0	ref	`` Doctor '' Lee asked her to lie down on a bed and remove her shoes .
cf10.2.1	post-adj2	`` Doctor '' Lee asked her to lie on a bed down and remove her shoes .
cf10.3.0	ref	Then , by squeezing her foot three times , he came up -- presto -- with a different diagnosis with each squeeze .
cf10.3.1	pre-adj2	By squeezing her foot three times , then , he came up -- presto -- with a different diagnosis with each squeeze .
cf10.5.0	ref	-LRB- He explained that he could diagnose these ailments from squeezing her foot because all of the nervous system was connected to it . -RRB-
cf10.5.1	post-adv	-LRB- He explained that he because all of the nervous system was connected to it could diagnose these ailments from squeezing her foot . -RRB-
cf10.7.0	ref	As he applied the applicator extending from the machine -- which consisted of seven differently colored neon tubes superimposed on a rectangular base -- to the supposedly diseased portions of Mrs. Shaefer 's body , Lee kept up a steady stream of pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo .
cf10.7.1	pre-adv	Lee kept up a steady stream of pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo , as he applied the applicator extending from the machine -- which consisted of seven differently colored neon tubes superimposed on a rectangular base -- to the supposedly diseased portions of Mrs. Shaefer 's body .
cf10.8.0	ref	Yes , the ozone from his machine would cure practically everything , he assured her .
cf10.8.1	quote	Yes , the ozone from his machine would cure practically everything , assured he her .
cf10.12.0	ref	Continuing glibly in this vein , he paused to comfort her : `` Do n't you worry .
cf10.12.1	post-adj2	Continuing in this vein glibly , he paused to comfort her : `` Do n't you worry .
cf10.20.0	ref	When she said that she did n't have the money , he said that she could come in for treatment with his office model until she was ready to buy one .
cf10.20.1	post-adv	When she said that she did n't have the money , he said that she until she was ready to buy one could come in for treatment with his office model .
cf10.20.2	pre-adv	He said that she could come in for treatment with his office model until she was ready to buy one , when she said that she did n't have the money .
cf10.20.3	post-adj2	When she said that she did n't have the money , he said that she could come for treatment with his office model in until she was ready to buy one .
cf10.21.0	ref	He then sold her minerals to cure her kidney ailment , a can of sage `` to make her look like a girl again '' , and an application of plain mud to take her wrinkles away .
cf10.21.1	dat-np-np	He then sold minerals to cure her kidney ailment , a can of sage `` to make her look like a girl again '' , and an application of plain mud to take her wrinkles away to her .
cf10.21.2	post-adj2	He then sold her minerals to cure her kidney ailment , a can of sage `` to make her look again like a girl '' , and an application of plain mud to take her wrinkles away .
cf10.22.0	ref	Lee renewed his pressure on Mrs. Shaefer to buy his machine when she visited him the next day .
cf10.22.1	post-adv	When she visited him the next day Lee renewed his pressure on Mrs. Shaefer to buy his machine .
cf10.23.0	ref	After another treatment with the machine , he told her that `` her entire body was shot through with tumors and cysts '' .
cf10.23.1	post-adj2	After another treatment with the machine , he told her that `` her entire body was shot with tumors and cysts through '' .
cf10.24.0	ref	He then sold her some capsules that he asserted would take care of the tumors and cysts until she could collect the money for buying his machine .
cf10.24.1	dat-np-np	He then sold some capsules that he asserted would take care of the tumors and cysts until she could collect the money for buying his machine to her .
cf10.24.2	post-adv	He then sold her some capsules that he asserted until she could collect the money for buying his machine would take care of the tumors and cysts .
cf10.25.0	ref	When she submitted to his treatment with the capsules , Mrs. Shaefer felt intense pain .
cf10.25.1	pre-adv	Mrs. Shaefer felt intense pain , when she submitted to his treatment with the capsules .
cf10.28.0	ref	Mrs. Shaefer never got around to joining the thousand or so people who paid Lee some $ 30,000 for his ozone machines .
cf10.28.1	dat-np-np	Mrs. Shaefer never got around to joining the thousand or so people who paid some $ 30,000 to Lee for his ozone machines .
cf10.29.0	ref	For Mrs. Shaefer -- who had been given a clean bill of health by her own physician at the time she visited Lee -- and her friend were agents for the California Pure Food and Drug Inspection Bureau .
cf10.29.1	post-adj2	For Mrs. Shaefer -- who had been given a clean bill of health at the time she visited Lee by her own physician -- and her friend were agents for the California Pure Food and Drug Inspection Bureau .
cf10.30.0	ref	And she felt amply rewarded for her suffering when the evidence of Lee 's quack shenanigans , gathered by the tape recorder under her friend 's clothing , proved adequate in court for convicting Franklin D. Lee .
cf10.30.1	post-adv	When the evidence of Lee 's quack shenanigans , gathered by the tape recorder under her friend 's clothing , proved adequate in court for convicting Franklin D. Lee and she felt amply rewarded for her suffering .
cf10.35.0	ref	Rather , it is typical of the thousands of quacks who use phony therapeutic devices to fatten themselves on the miseries of hundreds of thousands of Americans by robbing them of millions of dollars and luring them away from legitimate , ethical medical treatment of serious diseases .
cf10.35.1	post-adj2	Rather , it is typical of the thousands of quacks who use phony therapeutic devices to fatten themselves by robbing them of millions of dollars and luring them away from legitimate , ethical medical treatment of serious diseases on the miseries of hundreds of thousands of Americans .
cf10.44.0	ref	According to the Food And Drug Administration -LRB- FDA -RRB- , `` Doctor '' Ghadiali , Dr. Albert Abrams and his clique , and Dr. Wilhelm Reich -- to name three notorious device quacks -- succeeded , respectively , in distributing 10,000 , 5000 , and 2000 fake health machines .
cf10.44.1	post-adj2	According to the Food And Drug Administration -LRB- FDA -RRB- , `` Doctor '' Ghadiali , Dr. Albert Abrams and his clique , and Dr. Wilhelm Reich -- to name three notorious device quacks -- succeeded , in distributing 10,000 , 5000 , and 2000 fake health machines , respectively .
cf10.47.0	ref	Sarah Gross , a dress shop proprietor , paid $ 1020 to a masseur , and Mr. A. , a laborer , paid $ 4200 to a chiropractor for treatment with two fake health machines -- the `` radioclast '' and the `` diagnometer '' .
cf10.47.1	dat-np-pp	Sarah Gross , a dress shop proprietor , paid a masseur $ 1020 , and Mr. A. , a laborer , paid $ 4200 to a chiropractor for treatment with two fake health machines -- the `` radioclast '' and the `` diagnometer '' .
cf10.47.2	dat-np-pp	Sarah Gross , a dress shop proprietor , paid $ 1020 to a masseur , and Mr. A. , a laborer , paid a chiropractor $ 4200 for treatment with two fake health machines -- the `` radioclast '' and the `` diagnometer '' .
cf10.50.0	ref	That 's why the FDA , the American Medical Association -LRB- AMA -RRB- , and the National Better Business Bureau -LRB- BBB -RRB- have estimated the toll of mechanical quackery to be a substantial portion of the $ 610 million or so paid to medical charlatans annually .
cf10.50.1	post-adj2	That 's why the FDA , the American Medical Association -LRB- AMA -RRB- , and the National Better Business Bureau -LRB- BBB -RRB- have estimated the toll of mechanical quackery to be a substantial portion of the $ 610 million or so paid annually to medical charlatans .
cf10.60.0	ref	Sarah Gross found that the treatments given her for a nervous ailment by the masseur were not helping her .
cf10.60.1	post-adj2	Sarah Gross found that the treatments given her by the masseur for a nervous ailment were not helping her .
cf10.65.0	ref	`` That 's a lot of hard-earned money to lose '' , he says today .
cf10.65.1	quote	`` That 's a lot of hard-earned money to lose '' , says he today .
cf10.67.0	ref	And there was the case of Tom Hepker , a machinist , who was referred by a friend to a health machine quack who treated him with a so-called diagnostic machine for what Doctor Fraud said was a system full of arsenic and strychnine .
cf10.67.1	post-adj2	And there was the case of Tom Hepker , a machinist , who was referred to a health machine quack who treated him with a so-called diagnostic machine for what Doctor Fraud said was a system full of arsenic and strychnine by a friend .
cf10.68.0	ref	After his pains got worse , Tom decided to see a real doctor , from whom he learned he was suffering from cancer of the lung .
cf10.68.1	pre-adv	Tom decided to see a real doctor , from whom he learned he was suffering from cancer of the lung , after his pains got worse .
cf10.74.0	ref	For instance : In Chicago , some time ago , Mr. H. , age 27 , a diabetic since he was six , stopped using insulin because he had bought a `` magic spike '' -- a glass tube about the size of a pencil filled with barium chloride worth a small fraction of a cent -- sold by the Vrilium Company of Chicago for $ 306 as a cure-all .
cf10.74.1	post-adv	Because he had bought a `` magic spike '' -- a glass tube about the size of a pencil filled with barium chloride worth a small fraction of a cent -- sold by the Vrilium Company of Chicago for $ 306 as a cure-all for instance : In Chicago , some time ago , Mr. H. , age 27 , a diabetic since he was six , stopped using insulin .
cf10.75.0	ref	`` Hang this around your neck or attach it to other parts of your anatomy , and its rays will cure any disease you have '' , said the company .
cf10.75.1	iquote	`` Hang this around your neck or attach it to other parts of your anatomy , and its rays will cure any disease you have '' , the company said .
cf10.76.0	ref	Mr. H. is dead today because he followed this advice .
cf10.76.1	post-adv	Because he followed this advice Mr. H. is dead today .
cf10.80.0	ref	Although she weighed only 108 pounds when she visited him , Carroll permitted her to go on a 10-day fast in which she took nothing but water .
cf10.80.1	post-adv	Although when she visited him she weighed only 108 pounds , Carroll permitted her to go on a 10-day fast in which she took nothing but water .
cf10.80.2	pre-adv	Carroll permitted her to go on a 10-day fast in which she took nothing but water , although she weighed only 108 pounds when she visited him .
cf10.83.0	ref	-LRB- Small wonder a Spokane jury awarded the husband $ 35,823 for his wife 's death . -RRB-
cf10.83.1	dat-np-np	-LRB- Small wonder a Spokane jury awarded $ 35,823 for his wife 's death to the husband . -RRB-
cf10.84.0	ref	In California , a few years ago , a ghoul by the name of H.F. Bell sold electric blankets as a cure for cancer .
cf10.84.1	pre-adj2	A few years ago , in California , a ghoul by the name of H.F. Bell sold electric blankets as a cure for cancer .
cf10.86.0	ref	When authorities convicted him of practicing medicine without a license -LRB- he got off with a suspended sentence of three years because of his advanced age of 77 -RRB- , one of his victims was not around to testify : He was dead of cancer .
cf10.86.1	pre-adv	-LRB- He got off with a suspended sentence of three years because of his advanced age of 77 -RRB- , one of his victims was not around to testify when authorities convicted him of practicing medicine without a license : He was dead of cancer .
cf10.88.0	ref	`` Unfortunately '' , says Chief Postal Inspector David H. Stephens , who has prosecuted many device quacks , `` the ghouls who trade on the hopes of the desperately ill often can not be successfully prosecuted because the patients who are the chief witnesses die before the case is called up in court '' .
cf10.88.1	post-adv	`` Unfortunately '' , says Chief Postal Inspector David H. Stephens , who has prosecuted many device quacks , `` the ghouls who trade on the hopes of the desperately ill often can not because the patients who are the chief witnesses die before the case is called up in court be successfully prosecuted '' .
cf10.88.2	post-adv	`` Unfortunately '' , says Chief Postal Inspector David H. Stephens , who has prosecuted many device quacks , `` the ghouls who trade on the hopes of the desperately ill often can not be successfully prosecuted because before the case is called up in court the patients who are the chief witnesses die '' .
cf11.2.0	ref	His grades had gone steadily downhill , and he had stopped bringing friends and classmates home from school .
cf11.2.1	post-adj2	His grades had gone downhill steadily , and he had stopped bringing friends and classmates home from school .
cf11.4.0	ref	Then one day Dick 's classmate Jimmy , from next door , let the cat out of the bag .
cf11.4.1	pre-adj2	One day then Dick 's classmate Jimmy , from next door , let the cat out of the bag .
cf11.5.0	ref	The youngsters in the boys ' class had nicknamed Dick `` Bugs Bunny '' because his teeth protruded .
cf11.5.1	post-adv	The youngsters in the boys ' class because his teeth protruded had nicknamed Dick `` Bugs Bunny '' .
cf11.6.0	ref	When Richard 's parents told him they wanted to take him to an orthodontist -- a dentist who specializes in realigning teeth and jaws -- their young son was interested .
cf11.6.1	pre-adv	Their young son was interested when Richard 's parents told him they wanted to take him to an orthodontist -- a dentist who specializes in realigning teeth and jaws .
cf11.7.0	ref	During the year that followed , Dick co-operated whole-heartedly with the dentist and was delighted with the final result achieved -- an upper row of strong straight teeth that completely changed his facial appearance .
cf11.7.1	post-adj2	During the year that followed , Dick co-operated with the dentist whole-heartedly and was delighted with the final result achieved -- an upper row of strong straight teeth that completely changed his facial appearance .
cf11.9.0	ref	`` The majority of children in the United States could benefit by some form of orthodontic treatment '' , says Dr. Allan G. Brodie , professor and head of the department of orthodontics at the University of Illinois and a nationally recognized authority in his field .
cf11.9.1	iquote	`` The majority of children in the United States could benefit by some form of orthodontic treatment '' , Dr. Allan G. Brodie , professor and head of the department of orthodontics at the University of Illinois and a nationally recognized authority in his field says .
cf11.10.0	ref	What do parents need to know about those `` years of the braces '' in order not to waste a child 's time and their money ?
cf11.10.1	post-adv	What in order not to waste a child 's time and their money do parents need to know about those `` years of the braces '' ?
cf11.14.0	ref	Tooth fit explained occlusion is the dentist 's expression for the way teeth fit together when the jaws are closed .
cf11.14.1	post-adv	Tooth fit explained occlusion is the dentist 's expression for the way when the jaws are closed teeth fit together .
cf11.19.0	ref	A child probably requires some form of treatment if he has any of the following conditions : A noticeable protrusion of the upper or lower jaw .
cf11.19.1	post-adv	If he has any of the following conditions : A noticeable protrusion of the upper or lower jaw a child probably requires some form of treatment .
cf11.21.0	ref	Front teeth not meeting when the back teeth close .
cf11.21.1	post-adv	When the back teeth close front teeth not meeting .
cf11.22.0	ref	Upper teeth completely covering the lowers when the back teeth close .
cf11.22.1	post-adv	When the back teeth close upper teeth completely covering the lowers .
cf11.24.0	ref	Second teeth that have come in before the first ones have fallen out , making a double row .
cf11.24.1	post-adv	Second teeth that , before the first ones have fallen out , have come in making a double row .
cf11.28.0	ref	It 's perfectly normal for babies to suck their thumbs , and no mother need worry if a child continues this habit until he is two or three years old .
cf11.28.1	post-adv	It 's perfectly normal for babies to suck their thumbs , and if a child continues this habit until he is two or three years old no mother need worry .
cf11.28.2	post-adv	It 's perfectly normal for babies to suck their thumbs , and no mother need worry if until he is two or three years old a child continues this habit .
cf11.29.0	ref	Occasional sucking up to the fifth year may not affect a youngster 's teeth ; but after that , if thumb-sucking pressure is frequent , it will have an effect .
cf11.29.1	pre-adv	Occasional sucking up to the fifth year may not affect a youngster 's teeth ; but after that it will have an effect , if thumb-sucking pressure is frequent .
cf11.30.0	ref	Malocclusion can also result if baby teeth are lost too soon or retained too long .
cf11.30.1	post-adv	Malocclusion if baby teeth are lost too soon or retained too long can also result .
cf11.31.0	ref	If a child loses a molar at the age of two , the adjoining teeth may shift toward the empty space , thus narrowing the place intended for the permanent ones and producing a jumble .
cf11.31.1	pre-adv	The adjoining teeth may shift toward the empty space , thus narrowing the place intended for the permanent ones and producing a jumble , if a child loses a molar at the age of two .
cf11.32.0	ref	If baby teeth are retained too long , the incoming second teeth may be prevented from emerging at the normal time or may have to erupt in the wrong place .
cf11.32.1	pre-adv	The incoming second teeth may be prevented from emerging at the normal time or may have to erupt in the wrong place , if baby teeth are retained too long .
cf11.35.0	ref	Some such youngsters rarely smile , or they try to speak with the mouth closed .
cf11.35.1	post-adv	Some such youngsters rarely smile , or they try with the mouth closed to speak .
cf11.36.0	ref	In certain cases , as in Dick Stewart 's , a child 's personality is affected .
cf11.36.1	pre-adj2	As in Dick Stewart 's , in certain cases , a child 's personality is affected .
cf11.37.0	ref	Yet from the dentist 's point of view , bad-fitting teeth should be corrected for physical reasons .
cf11.37.1	pre-adj2	From the dentist 's point of view yet , bad-fitting teeth should be corrected for physical reasons .
cf11.40.0	ref	Then , too , misplaced or jammed-together teeth are prone to trapping food particles , increasing the likelihood of rapid decay .
cf11.40.1	pre-adj2	Too , then , misplaced or jammed-together teeth are prone to trapping food particles , increasing the likelihood of rapid decay .
cf11.42.0	ref	The failure of teeth to fit together when closed interferes with normal chewing , so that a child may swallow food whole and put a burden on his digestive system .
cf11.42.1	post-adv	The failure of teeth when closed to fit together interferes with normal chewing , so that a child may swallow food whole and put a burden on his digestive system .
cf11.42.2	post-adv	So that a child may swallow food whole and put a burden on his digestive system , the failure of teeth to fit together when closed interferes with normal chewing .
cf11.46.0	ref	`` Most orthodontic work is done on children between the ages of 10 and 14 , though there have been patients as young as two and as old as 55 '' , says Dr. Brodie .
cf11.46.1	post-adv	`` Most orthodontic work , though there have been patients as young as two and as old as 55 , is done on children between the ages of 10 and 14 '' , says Dr. Brodie .
cf11.46.2	iquote	`` Most orthodontic work is done on children between the ages of 10 and 14 , though there have been patients as young as two and as old as 55 '' , Dr. Brodie says .
cf11.48.0	ref	Orthodontic work is possible because teeth are held firmly but not rigidly , by a system of peridontal membrane with an involved nerve network , to the bone in the jaw ; they are not anchored directly to the bone .
cf11.48.1	post-adv	Because teeth are held firmly but not rigidly , by a system of peridontal membrane with an involved nerve network , to the bone in the jaw orthodontic work is possible ; they are not anchored directly to the bone .
cf11.48.2	post-adj3	Orthodontic work is possible because teeth are held by a system of peridontal membrane with an involved nerve network , firmly but not rigidly , to the bone in the jaw ; they are not anchored directly to the bone .
cf11.48.3	post-adj3	Orthodontic work is possible because teeth are held to the bone in the jaw , by a system of peridontal membrane with an involved nerve network , firmly but not rigidly ; they are not anchored directly to the bone .
cf11.48.4	post-adj3	Orthodontic work is possible because teeth are held firmly but not rigidly , to the bone in the jaw , by a system of peridontal membrane with an involved nerve network ; they are not anchored directly to the bone .
cf11.48.5	post-adj3	Orthodontic work is possible because teeth are held , to the bone in the jaw , firmly but not rigidly , by a system of peridontal membrane with an involved nerve network ; they are not anchored directly to the bone .
cf11.48.6	post-adj3	Orthodontic work is possible because teeth are held by a system of peridontal membrane with an involved nerve network , to the bone in the jaw , firmly but not rigidly ; they are not anchored directly to the bone .
cf11.49.0	ref	Abnormal pressure , applied over a period of time , produces a change in the bony deposit , so a tooth functions normally in the new position into which it has been guided .
cf11.49.1	post-adv	So a tooth functions normally in the new position into which it has been guided , abnormal pressure , applied over a period of time , produces a change in the bony deposit .
cf11.50.0	ref	What can 10-year-old Susan expect when she enters the orthodontist 's office ?
cf11.50.1	post-adv	What when she enters the orthodontist 's office can 10-year-old Susan expect ?
cf11.52.0	ref	If he decides to proceed , he will custom-make for Susie an appliance consisting of bands , plastic plates , fine wires , and tiny springs .
cf11.52.1	pre-adv	He will custom-make for Susie an appliance consisting of bands , plastic plates , fine wires , and tiny springs , if he decides to proceed .
cf11.54.0	ref	As the tooth moves , bone cells on the pressure side of it will dissolve , and new ones will form on the side from which the tooth has moved .
cf11.54.1	pre-adv	Bone cells on the pressure side of it will dissolve , as the tooth moves , and new ones will form on the side from which the tooth has moved .
cf11.56.0	ref	`` If teeth are moved too rapidly , serious injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding bone holding them in place '' , explains Dr. Brodie .
cf11.56.1	pre-adv	`` Serious injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding bone holding them in place , if teeth are moved too rapidly '' , explains Dr. Brodie .
cf11.56.2	iquote	`` If teeth are moved too rapidly , serious injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding bone holding them in place '' , Dr. Brodie explains .
cf11.60.0	ref	When in place , a well-cemented band actually protects the part of the tooth that is covered .
cf11.60.1	pre-adv	A well-cemented band actually protects the part of the tooth that is covered , when in place .
cf11.61.0	ref	Next Susie will enter the treatment stage and visit the orthodontist once or twice a month , depending on the severity of her condition .
cf11.61.1	post-adj2	Next Susie will enter the treatment stage and visit the orthodontist depending on the severity of her condition , once or twice a month .
cf11.65.0	ref	But because teeth sometimes may drift back to their original position , a retaining appliance is used to lock them in place .
cf11.65.1	pre-adv	But a retaining appliance is used to lock them in place , because teeth sometimes may drift back to their original position .
cf11.65.2	post-adj2	But because teeth sometimes may drift to their original position back , a retaining appliance is used to lock them in place .
cf11.77.0	ref	`` Factors in the cost of treatment are the length of time involved and the skill and education of the practitioner '' , says Dr. Brodie .
cf11.77.1	iquote	`` Factors in the cost of treatment are the length of time involved and the skill and education of the practitioner '' , Dr. Brodie says .
cf11.78.0	ref	To become an orthodontist , a man must first be licensed by his state as a dentist , then he must spend at least two years in additional training to acquire a license as a specialist .
cf11.78.1	post-adj2	To become an orthodontist , a man must first be licensed as a dentist by his state , then he must spend at least two years in additional training to acquire a license as a specialist .
cf11.79.0	ref	`` Costs may seem high , but they used to be even higher '' , says Dr. Brodie .
cf11.79.1	iquote	`` Costs may seem high , but they used to be even higher '' , Dr. Brodie says .
cf11.83.0	ref	Most orthodontists require an initial payment to cover the cost of diagnostic materials and construction of the appliances , but usually the remainder of the cost may be spread over a period of months or years .
cf11.83.1	post-adv	To cover the cost of diagnostic materials and construction of the appliances most orthodontists require an initial payment , but usually the remainder of the cost may be spread over a period of months or years .
cf11.87.0	ref	Growth studies have been carried on consistently by orthodontists .
cf11.87.1	post-adj2	Growth studies have been carried on by orthodontists consistently .
cf11.89.0	ref	`` In the past anyone who said that 90 % of all malocclusion is hereditary was scoffed at ; now we know that family characteristics do affect tooth formation to a large extent '' , he says .
cf11.89.1	quote	`` In the past anyone who said that 90 % of all malocclusion is hereditary was scoffed at ; now we know that family characteristics do affect tooth formation to a large extent '' , says he .
cf11.90.0	ref	`` Fortunately through our growth studies we have been able to see what nature does , and that helps us know what we can do '' .
cf11.90.1	pre-adj2	`` Through our growth studies fortunately we have been able to see what nature does , and that helps us know what we can do '' .
cf11.95.0	ref	In other cases , in view of present-day knowledge of head growth , orthodontists will recommend waiting four or five years before treatment .
cf11.95.1	pre-adj2	In view of present-day knowledge of head growth , in other cases , orthodontists will recommend waiting four or five years before treatment .
cf11.95.2	post-adj2	In other cases , in view of present-day knowledge of head growth , orthodontists will recommend waiting before treatment four or five years .
cf11.97.0	ref	`` Nature often takes care of the problem '' , says Dr. Brodie .
cf11.97.1	iquote	`` Nature often takes care of the problem '' , Dr. Brodie says .
cf11.100.0	ref	`` Both because of our culture 's stress on beauty and our improved economic conditions , some parents demand that the dentist try to correct a problem before it is wise to do so .
cf11.100.1	post-adv	`` Both because of our culture 's stress on beauty and our improved economic conditions , some parents demand that the dentist try before it is wise to do so to correct a problem .
cf11.106.0	ref	`` After your child 's baby teeth are all in -- usually at the age of two and one half to three -- it 's time for that first dental appointment '' , Dr. Brodie advises .
cf11.106.1	quote	`` After your child 's baby teeth are all in -- usually at the age of two and one half to three -- it 's time for that first dental appointment '' , advises Dr. Brodie .
cf11.106.2	pre-adv	`` Usually at the age of two and one half to three -- it 's time for that first dental appointment , after your child 's baby teeth are all in '' , Dr. Brodie advises .
cf11.109.0	ref	If a child does lose his first teeth prematurely because of decay -- and if no preventive steps are taken -- the other teeth may shift out of position , become overcrowded and malformed .
cf11.109.1	pre-adv	The other teeth may shift out of position , become overcrowded and malformed if a child does lose his first teeth prematurely because of decay -- and if no preventive steps are taken .
cf11.109.2	post-adj2	If a child does lose his first teeth because of decay prematurely -- and if no preventive steps are taken -- the other teeth may shift out of position , become overcrowded and malformed .
cf11.110.0	ref	In turn the other teeth are likely to decay because food particles may become impacted in them .
cf11.110.1	post-adv	Because food particles may become impacted in them in turn the other teeth are likely to decay .
cf12.3.0	ref	As the hour progresses , the sensitive seems to probe more deeply and to make more personal and specific statements .
cf12.3.1	pre-adv	The sensitive seems to probe more deeply and to make more personal and specific statements , as the hour progresses .
cf12.6.0	ref	Some mediums speak in practical , down-to-earth terms , while others may stress the spiritual .
cf12.6.1	post-adv	While others may stress the spiritual , some mediums speak in practical , down-to-earth terms .
cf12.9.0	ref	However that may be , people are known to go to mediums for diverse reasons .
cf12.9.1	pre-adv	People are known to go to mediums for diverse reasons , however that may be .
cf12.9.2	post-adj2	However that may be , people are known to go for diverse reasons to mediums .
cf12.12.0	ref	The mediums with whom the Parapsychology Foundation is working in this experiment are in a waking or only slightly dissociated state , so that the sitter can make comments , ask and answer questions , instead of talking with a `` control '' who speaks through an entranced sensitive .
cf12.12.1	post-adv	So that the sitter can make comments , ask and answer questions , instead of talking with a `` control '' who speaks through an entranced sensitive , the mediums with whom the Parapsychology Foundation is working in this experiment are in a waking or only slightly dissociated state .
cf12.16.0	ref	He himself might not have been really aware of his own mood ; it had been latent , unspecified , semi-conscious and only partly realized -- until she described it to him !
cf12.16.1	post-adv	He himself might not have been really aware of his own mood ; it -- until she described it to him -- had been latent , unspecified , semi-conscious and only partly realized !
cf12.18.0	ref	However , in the next visit that the researcher made to the medium , he did not receive a personal reading .
cf12.18.1	pre-adj2	In the next visit that the researcher made to the medium , however , he did not receive a personal reading .
cf12.21.0	ref	As was noted earlier , it is important that in valid , objective study of this sort of communication , the interested sitter should be separated from the sensitive .
cf12.21.1	pre-adv	It is important that in valid , objective study of this sort of communication , the interested sitter should be separated from the sensitive , as was noted earlier .
cf12.26.0	ref	If the latter knows nothing about the absent sitter except his name -LRB- given by the experimenter -RRB- , he can not possibly give any clues , conscious or unconscious , far less ask leading questions .
cf12.26.1	pre-adv	He can not possibly give any clues , conscious or unconscious , far less ask leading questions , if the latter knows nothing about the absent sitter except his name -LRB- given by the experimenter -RRB- .
cf12.28.0	ref	Sometimes in these experiments `` appointment sittings '' are used .
cf12.28.1	pre-adj2	In these experiments sometimes `` appointment sittings '' are used .
cf12.29.0	ref	Here the absent sitter makes a `` date '' with a communicator -LRB- someone close to him who is deceased -RRB- , asking him to `` come in '' at a certain hour , when a channel will be open for him .
cf12.29.1	post-adj2	Here the absent sitter makes a `` date '' with a communicator -LRB- someone close to him who is deceased -RRB- , asking him to `` come at a certain hour , when a channel will be open for him '' in .
cf12.31.0	ref	He gives this to the medium at the appointed time , and the reading then will be concerned with material about or messages from the communicator .
cf12.31.1	post-adj2	He gives this at the appointed time to the medium , and the reading then will be concerned with material about or messages from the communicator .
cf12.31.2	dat-np-pp	He gives the medium this at the appointed time , and the reading then will be concerned with material about or messages from the communicator .
cf12.34.0	ref	It is now harder to assume telepathy as a basis for the statements -- though research still does not know how far afield ESP can range .
cf12.34.1	post-adv	Though research still does not know how far afield ESP can range -- it is now harder to assume telepathy as a basis for the statements .
cf12.36.0	ref	Here again laboratory approaches are being evolved , for it is recognized how `` elastic '' these readings can be , how they can apply to many people , and are often stated in general terms all too easily applied to any individual 's own case .
cf12.36.1	pre-adj2	Again here laboratory approaches are being evolved , for it is recognized how `` elastic '' these readings can be , how they can apply to many people , and are often stated in general terms all too easily applied to any individual 's own case .
cf12.36.2	post-adv	Here again laboratory approaches are , for it is recognized how `` elastic '' these readings can be , how they can apply to many people , and are often stated in general terms all too easily applied to any individual 's own case , being evolved .
cf12.37.0	ref	If you look at a reading meant for someone else , you will probably see that many of the items could be considered as applicable to you , even when you were not in the picture at all !
cf12.37.1	post-adv	If you look at a reading meant for someone else , you will probably see that many of the items could , even when you were not in the picture at all , be considered as applicable to you !
cf12.37.2	pre-adv	You will probably see that many of the items could be considered as applicable to you , even when you were not in the picture at all , if you look at a reading meant for someone else !
cf12.38.0	ref	An interested sitter may think the sensitive has made a `` hit '' , describing something accurately for him , but can he really be sure that another sitter , hearing the same statement , would not apply it subjectively to his own circumstances ?
cf12.38.1	post-adj2	An interested sitter may think the sensitive has made a `` hit '' , describing something for him accurately , but can he really be sure that another sitter , hearing the same statement , would not apply it subjectively to his own circumstances ?
cf12.44.0	ref	If he is not told which of four or five readings was meant for him , he can more readily assess each item in a larger frame : `` Does that statement really sound as if it were for me , significant in my particular life ?
cf12.44.1	pre-adv	He can more readily assess each item in a larger frame : `` Does that statement really sound as if it were for me , significant in my particular life , if he is not told which of four or five readings was meant for him ?
cf12.46.0	ref	Conversely , experimenters would consider as impressive such statements as the following , which , if they turned out to be hits , are so unusual as to be really significant : `` He had four children , two sets of twins .
cf12.46.1	pre-adv	Conversely , experimenters would consider as impressive such statements as the following , which , are so unusual as to be really significant , if they turned out to be hits : `` He had four children , two sets of twins .
cf12.49.0	ref	He died of typhoid in 1921 '' .
cf12.49.1	post-adj2	He died in 1921 of typhoid '' .
cf12.52.0	ref	Specific dates would be important , as would double names .
cf12.52.1	post-adv	Specific dates , as would double names , would be important .
cf12.54.0	ref	In the parapsychology foundation 's long-range experiment , readings are made by a variety of sensitives for a large number of cooperating sitters , trying to throw light on this question of the significance of mediumistic statements .
cf12.54.1	post-adj2	In the parapsychology foundation 's long-range experiment , readings are made for a large number of cooperating sitters by a variety of sensitives , trying to throw light on this question of the significance of mediumistic statements .
cf12.55.0	ref	It is very important indeed , in the field of extra-sensory perception and its relation to the survival hypothesis , to know whether the statements are actually only those which any intuitive person might venture and an eager sitter attach to himself .
cf12.55.1	post-adj2	It is very important in the field of extra-sensory perception and its relation to the survival hypothesis , indeed , to know whether the statements are actually only those which any intuitive person might venture and an eager sitter attach to himself .
cf12.58.0	ref	So , after the sitting has been held , several readings at one time are mailed , and the distant sitter -LRB- whose name or whose communicator 's name was given to the medium -RRB- must mark each little item as Correct -LRB- Hit -RRB- , Incorrect -LRB- Miss -RRB- , Doubtful , or Especially Significant -LRB- applying to him and , he feels , not to anyone else -RRB- .
cf12.58.1	pre-adv	So several readings at one time are mailed , after the sitting has been held , and the distant sitter -LRB- whose name or whose communicator 's name was given to the medium -RRB- must mark each little item as Correct -LRB- Hit -RRB- , Incorrect -LRB- Miss -RRB- , Doubtful , or Especially Significant -LRB- applying to him and , he feels , not to anyone else -RRB- .
cf12.60.0	ref	All these evaluations are then totted up and tabulated , by adding up the Hits and Significants , with the weight placed on those in the sitter 's own reading .
cf12.60.1	post-adv	All these evaluations are then , with the weight placed on those in the sitter 's own reading , totted up and tabulated , by adding up the Hits and Significants .
cf12.61.0	ref	That is , if he marks as most correct a reading not meant for him , the total experimental score falls .
cf12.61.1	pre-adv	That is the total experimental score falls , if he marks as most correct a reading not meant for him .
cf12.62.0	ref	Conversely , if he gives a heavy rating to his own reading , and finds more accurate facts in it than in the others , a point is chalked up for the intrinsic , objective meaningfulness of this type of mediumistic material .
cf12.62.1	pre-adv	Conversely a point is chalked up for the intrinsic , objective meaningfulness of this type of mediumistic material , if he gives a heavy rating to his own reading , and finds more accurate facts in it than in the others .
cf12.62.2	dat-np-pp	Conversely , if he gives his own reading a heavy rating , and finds more accurate facts in it than in the others , a point is chalked up for the intrinsic , objective meaningfulness of this type of mediumistic material .
cf12.63.0	ref	And there are some positive results , though the final findings will not be known for a long time -- and then further research can be formulated .
cf12.63.1	post-adv	Though the final findings will not be known for a long time -- and then further research can be formulated , and there are some positive results .
cf12.64.0	ref	In another approach to the same procedure , the content of the readings is analyzed so as to see how the particular medium is likely to slant her statements .
cf12.64.1	post-adv	In another approach to the same procedure , the content of the readings so as to see how the particular medium is likely to slant her statements is analyzed .
cf12.68.0	ref	Now when , so to speak , the cream has been skimmed off , and the items in the successful categories separated out , the sitter can be asked to consider and rate only this concentrated `` cream '' , where the sensitive is at her best .
cf12.68.1	pre-adv	Now the sitter can be asked to consider and rate only this concentrated `` cream '' , where the sensitive is at her best , when , so to speak , the cream has been skimmed off , and the items in the successful categories separated out .
cf12.72.0	ref	Maybe an entire scene comes into consciousness , with action and motion , or a static view : `` a house under a pine tree , with a little stone path going up to the door '' .
cf12.72.1	post-adj2	Maybe an entire scene comes with action and motion , or a static view : `` a house under a pine tree , with a little stone path going up to the door '' , into consciousness .
cf12.74.0	ref	Sometimes she displays amazing eidetic imagery and seems to see all details in perspective , as if the scene were actually there .
cf12.74.1	post-adv	Sometimes she displays amazing eidetic imagery and seems , as if the scene were actually there , to see all details in perspective .
cf12.75.0	ref	If pressed by the sitter for more detail , she may be able to bring the picture more into focus and see more sharply , almost as if she were physically going closer .
cf12.75.1	post-adv	If pressed by the sitter for more detail , she , almost as if she were physically going closer , may be able to bring the picture more into focus and see more sharply .
cf12.75.2	pre-adv	She may be able to bring the picture more into focus and see more sharply , almost as if she were physically going closer , if pressed by the sitter for more detail .
cf12.75.3	post-adj2	If pressed for more detail by the sitter , she may be able to bring the picture more into focus and see more sharply , almost as if she were physically going closer .
cf12.76.0	ref	If asked how she gets her impressions , she probably can only say that she `` just gets them '' -- some more vividly than others .
cf12.76.1	pre-adv	She probably can only say that she `` just gets them '' -- some more vividly than others , if asked how she gets her impressions .
cf12.78.0	ref	Even in normal experience one gets impressions without knowing exactly how -- of atmosphere , of one another 's personalities , moods , intentions .
cf12.78.1	post-adj2	Even in normal experience one gets impressions of atmosphere , of one another 's personalities , moods , intentions -- without knowing exactly how .
cf12.80.0	ref	Simply using it increases its intensity , I was told by one sensitive .
cf12.80.1	quote	Simply using it increases its intensity , was told I by one sensitive .
cf12.84.0	ref	If communication with an entity on the `` other side '' is taking place , this too may assume the form of clairvoyant symbolism .
cf12.84.1	pre-adv	This too may assume the form of clairvoyant symbolism , if communication with an entity on the `` other side '' is taking place .
cf12.88.0	ref	Though they are often heard clairaudiently , as if a voice were speaking them , in other cases they are apprehended visually as symbols : a slope to signify the name `` Hill '' , for instance .
cf12.88.1	post-adv	Though they , as if a voice were speaking them , are often heard clairaudiently , in other cases they are apprehended visually as symbols : a slope to signify the name `` Hill '' , for instance .
cf12.88.2	pre-adv	In other cases they are apprehended visually as symbols : a slope to signify the name `` Hill '' , for instance , though they are often heard clairaudiently , as if a voice were speaking them .
cf13.3.0	ref	Livestock must be tended every day , routinely .
cf13.3.1	post-adj2	Livestock must be tended routinely , every day .
cf13.5.0	ref	Even if there are no livestock , the farmer can not leave the farm for long periods , particularly during the growing season .
cf13.5.1	pre-adv	The farmer can not leave the farm for long periods , particularly during the growing season , even if there are no livestock .
cf13.5.2	post-adj2	Even if there are no livestock , the farmer can not leave the farm particularly during the growing season , for long periods .
cf13.12.0	ref	It may not be profitable for a part-time farmer to own the labor-saving machinery that a full-time farmer can invest in profitably .
cf13.12.1	post-adj2	It may not be profitable for a part-time farmer to own the labor-saving machinery that a full-time farmer can invest profitably in .
cf13.17.0	ref	The high cost of land , supplies , and labor make it difficult to farm profitably on a part-time basis .
cf13.17.1	post-adj2	The high cost of land , supplies , and labor make it difficult to farm on a part-time basis profitably .
cf13.18.0	ref	Land within commuting distance of a growing city is usually high in price , higher if it has subdivision possibilities .
cf13.18.1	post-adv	Land within commuting distance of a growing city if it has subdivision possibilities is usually high in price , higher .
cf13.19.0	ref	Part-time farmers generally must pay higher prices for supplies than full-time farmers because they buy in smaller quantities .
cf13.19.1	post-adv	Part-time farmers generally because they buy in smaller quantities must pay higher prices for supplies than full-time farmers .
cf13.20.0	ref	If the farm is in an industrial area where wages are high , farm labor costs will also be high .
cf13.20.1	pre-adv	Farm labor costs will also be high , if the farm is in an industrial area where wages are high .
cf13.23.0	ref	He may have to depend upon custom service for specialized operations , such as spraying or threshing , and for these , he may have to wait his turn .
cf13.23.1	post-adj2	He may have to depend for specialized operations , such as spraying or threshing upon custom service , and for these , he may have to wait his turn .
cf13.24.0	ref	There will be losses caused by emergencies that arise while he is away at his off-farm job .
cf13.24.1	post-adv	There will be losses caused by emergencies that while he is away at his off-farm job arise .
cf13.25.0	ref	The farm may be an additional burden if the main job is lost .
cf13.25.1	post-adv	The farm if the main job is lost may be an additional burden .
cf13.26.0	ref	This may be true whether the farm is owned or rented .
cf13.26.1	post-adv	This whether the farm is owned or rented may be true .
cf13.27.0	ref	If the farm is rented , the rent must be paid .
cf13.27.1	pre-adv	The rent must be paid , if the farm is rented .
cf13.28.0	ref	If it is owned , taxes must be paid , and if the place is not free of mortgage , there will be interest and payments on the principal to take care of .
cf13.28.1	pre-adv	Taxes must be paid , if it is owned , and if the place is not free of mortgage , there will be interest and payments on the principal to take care of .
cf13.28.2	pre-adv	If it is owned , taxes must be paid , and there will be interest and payments on the principal to take care of , if the place is not free of mortgage .
cf13.31.0	ref	It gives them room to play and plenty of fresh air .
cf13.31.1	dat-np-np	It gives room to play and plenty of fresh air to them .
cf13.34.0	ref	Part-time farming gives a measure of security if the regular job is lost , provided the farm is owned free of debt and furnishes enough income to meet fixed expenses and minimum living costs .
cf13.34.1	post-adv	If the regular job is lost , part-time farming gives a measure of security provided the farm is owned free of debt and furnishes enough income to meet fixed expenses and minimum living costs .
cf13.37.0	ref	Generally , the same level of living costs less in the country than in the city .
cf13.37.1	post-adj2	Generally , the same level of living costs less than in the city in the country .
cf13.52.0	ref	If you want to raise feed or carry out some enterprise on a larger scale , you 'll need more land .
cf13.52.1	pre-adv	You 'll need more land , if you want to raise feed or carry out some enterprise on a larger scale .
cf13.59.0	ref	When surplus land is not expensive to buy or to keep up , it is usually better to buy it than to buy so small an acreage that the development of adjoining properties might impair the residential value of the farm .
cf13.59.1	pre-adv	It is usually better to buy it than to buy so small an acreage that the development of adjoining properties might impair the residential value of the farm , when surplus land is not expensive to buy or to keep up .
cf13.61.0	ref	If you have a year-round , full-time job you ca n't expect to grow much more than your family uses -- unless other members of the family do a good deal of the work or you hire help .
cf13.61.1	post-adv	If you have a year-round , full-time job you -- unless other members of the family do a good deal of the work or you hire help -- ca n't expect to grow much more than your family uses .
cf13.61.2	pre-adv	You ca n't expect to grow much more than your family uses -- unless other members of the family do a good deal of the work or you hire help if you have a year-round , full-time job .
cf13.65.0	ref	You may want to include your own regular vacation period if you have one .
cf13.65.1	post-adv	You if you have one may want to include your own regular vacation period .
cf13.68.0	ref	If you are going to produce for home use only , you will need only hand tools .
cf13.68.1	pre-adv	You will need only hand tools , if you are going to produce for home use only .
cf13.68.2	post-adj2	If you are going to produce only for home use , you will need only hand tools .
cf13.71.0	ref	If you have a planting of half an acre or more you may want to buy a small garden tractor -LRB- available for $ 300 to $ 500 with attachments , 1960 prices -RRB- .
cf13.71.1	pre-adv	You may want to buy a small garden tractor -LRB- available for $ 300 to $ 500 with attachments , 1960 prices -RRB- if you have a planting of half an acre or more .
cf13.74.0	ref	If you are going to farm for extra cash income on a part-time basis you must keep in mind the needed machinery investments when you choose among farm enterprises .
cf13.74.1	post-adv	If you are going to farm for extra cash income on a part-time basis you when you choose among farm enterprises must keep in mind the needed machinery investments .
cf13.74.2	pre-adv	You must keep in mind the needed machinery investments when you choose among farm enterprises if you are going to farm for extra cash income on a part-time basis .
cf13.74.3	post-adj2	If you are going to farm on a part-time basis for extra cash income you must keep in mind the needed machinery investments when you choose among farm enterprises .
cf13.76.0	ref	If an expensive and specialized piece of machinery is needed -- such as a spray rig , a combine , or a binder -- it is better to pay someone with a machine to do the work .
cf13.76.1	pre-adv	It is better to pay someone with a machine to do the work if an expensive and specialized piece of machinery is needed -- such as a spray rig , a combine , or a binder .
cf13.78.0	ref	Before you look for a farm you 'll need to know -LRB- 1 -RRB- the kind and scale of farming you want to undertake ; and -LRB- 2 -RRB- whether you want to buy or rent .
cf13.78.1	pre-adv	You 'll need to know -LRB- 1 -RRB- the kind and scale of farming you want to undertake ; and -LRB- 2 -RRB- whether you want to buy or rent before you look for a farm .
cf13.80.0	ref	If you are not well acquainted with the area in which you wish to locate , or if you are not sure that you and your family will like and make a success of farming , usually you would do better to rent a place for a year or two before you buy .
cf13.80.1	post-adv	If you are not well acquainted with the area in which you wish to locate , or if you are not sure that you and your family will like and make a success of farming , usually you would do better before you buy to rent a place for a year or two .
cf13.80.2	pre-adv	Usually you would do better to rent a place for a year or two before you buy , if you are not well acquainted with the area in which you wish to locate , or if you are not sure that you and your family will like and make a success of farming .
cf13.81.0	ref	Discussed below are some of the main things to look for when you select a part-time farm .
cf13.81.1	post-adv	Discussed below are some of the main things when you select a part-time farm to look for .
cf13.84.0	ref	Then if you change jobs you wo n't necessarily have to sell the farm .
cf13.84.1	pre-adv	Then you wo n't necessarily have to sell the farm if you change jobs .
cf13.85.0	ref	The presence of alternative job opportunities also will make the place easier to sell if that should become desirable .
cf13.85.1	post-adv	The presence of alternative job opportunities also will make the place easier if that should become desirable to sell .
cf13.88.0	ref	If you grow anything to sell you will need markets nearby .
cf13.88.1	pre-adv	You will need markets nearby if you grow anything to sell .
cf13.89.0	ref	If you plan to sell fresh vegetables or whole milk , for example , you should be close to a town or city .
cf13.89.1	pre-adv	For example , you should be close to a town or city , if you plan to sell fresh vegetables or whole milk .
cf13.98.0	ref	If these facilities are not at the door , getting them may cost more than you expect .
cf13.98.1	pre-adv	Getting them may cost more than you expect , if these facilities are not at the door .
cf13.99.0	ref	You may have to provide them yourself or get along without them .
cf13.99.1	post-adj2	You may have to provide them yourself or get without them along .
cf13.100.0	ref	You can not get along without an adequate supply of pure water .
cf13.100.1	post-adj2	You can not get without an adequate supply of pure water along .
cf13.101.0	ref	If you are considering a part-time farm where the water must be provided by a well , find out if there is a good well on the farm or the probable cost of having one drilled .
cf13.101.1	pre-adv	Find out if there is a good well on the farm or the probable cost of having one drilled , if you are considering a part-time farm where the water must be provided by a well .
cf13.104.0	ref	The following amounts of water are needed per day for livestock and domestic uses .
cf13.104.1	post-adj2	The following amounts of water are needed for livestock and domestic uses per day .
cf13.107.0	ref	If you ca n't tell , get help from your county agricultural agent or other local specialist .
cf13.107.1	pre-adv	Get help from your county agricultural agent or other local specialist , if you ca n't tell .
cf13.113.0	ref	If the house is not wired adequately for electricity or if plumbing or a central heating system must be installed , check into the cost of making these improvements .
cf13.113.1	pre-adv	Check into the cost of making these improvements , if the house is not wired adequately for electricity or if plumbing or a central heating system must be installed .
cf13.113.2	post-adj2	If the house is not wired for electricity adequately or if plumbing or a central heating system must be installed , check into the cost of making these improvements .
cf13.117.0	ref	The possibilities of selling the property later on for suburban subdivision .
cf13.117.1	post-adj2	The possibilities of selling the property for suburban subdivision later on .
cf13.118.0	ref	Decide first what the place is worth to you and your family as a home in comparison with what it would cost to live in town .
cf13.118.1	post-adj2	Decide in comparison with what it would cost to live in town what the place is worth to you and your family as a home first .
cf13.130.0	ref	To figure the value of the farm in terms of investment income , divide the estimated annual net farm income by the percentage that you could expect to get in interest if the money were invested in some other way .
cf13.130.1	post-adv	To figure the value of the farm in terms of investment income , divide the estimated annual net farm income by the percentage that you if the money were invested in some other way could expect to get in interest .
cf14.2.0	ref	For almost two months , the defendant and the world heard from individuals escaped from the grave about fathers and mothers , graybeards , adolescents , babies , starved , beaten to death , strangled , machine-gunned , gassed , burned .
cf14.2.1	post-adj2	For almost two months , the defendant and the world heard about fathers and mothers , graybeards , adolescents , babies , starved , beaten to death , strangled , machine-gunned , gassed , burned from individuals escaped from the grave .
cf14.3.0	ref	One who had been a boy in Auschwitz had to tell how children had been selected by height for the gas chambers .
cf14.3.1	post-adj2	One who had been a boy in Auschwitz had to tell how children had been selected for the gas chambers by height .
cf14.6.0	ref	And still another witness , one who had crawled out from under a heap of corpses , had to tell how the victims had been forced to lay themselves head to foot one on top of the other before being shot .
cf14.6.1	post-adj2	And still another witness , one who had crawled from under a heap of corpses out , had to tell how the victims had been forced to lay themselves head to foot one on top of the other before being shot .
cf14.7.0	ref	Most of this testimony may have been legally admissible as bearing on the corpus delicti of the total Nazi crime but seemed subject to question when not tied to the part in it of the defendant 's Department of Jewish Affairs .
cf14.7.1	post-adv	Most of this testimony when not tied to the part in it of the defendant 's Department of Jewish Affairs may have been legally admissible as bearing on the corpus delicti of the total Nazi crime but seemed subject to question .
cf14.11.0	ref	Interruptions came largely from the bench , which numerous times rebuked the Attorney General for letting his witnesses run on , though it , too , made no serious effort to choke off the flow .
cf14.11.1	post-adv	Though it , too , made no serious effort to choke off the flow , interruptions came largely from the bench , which numerous times rebuked the Attorney General for letting his witnesses run on .
cf14.11.2	post-adj2	Interruptions came from the bench , which numerous times rebuked the Attorney General for letting his witnesses run on largely , though it , too , made no serious effort to choke off the flow .
cf14.14.0	ref	These trials were properly termed `` political cases '' in that the trial itself was a political act producing political consequences .
cf14.14.1	post-adv	These trials in that the trial itself was a political act producing political consequences were properly termed `` political cases '' .
cf14.27.0	ref	One who could be linked to anti-Semitism only by overcoming his objections is scarcely a good specimen of the Jew-baiter throughout the ages .
cf14.27.1	post-adj2	One who could be linked only by overcoming his objections to anti-Semitism is scarcely a good specimen of the Jew-baiter throughout the ages .
cf14.28.0	ref	Shout at Eichmann though he might , the Prosecutor could not establish that the defendant was falsifying the way he felt about Jews or that what he did feel fell into the generally recognized category of anti-Semitism .
cf14.28.1	pre-adv	The Prosecutor could not establish that the defendant was falsifying the way he felt about Jews or that what he did feel fell into the generally recognized category of anti-Semitism , shout at Eichmann though he might .
cf14.32.0	ref	Perhaps under the guidance of this Nazi principle one could , as Eichmann declared , feel personally friendly toward the Jews and still be their murderer .
cf14.32.1	pre-adj2	Under the guidance of this Nazi principle perhaps one could , as Eichmann declared , feel personally friendly toward the Jews and still be their murderer .
cf14.32.2	post-adv	As Eichmann declared , perhaps under the guidance of this Nazi principle one could feel personally friendly toward the Jews and still be their murderer .
cf14.34.0	ref	At any rate , the substance of Eichmann 's testimony was that all his actions flowed from his membership in the party and the SS , and though the Prosecutor did his utmost to prove actual personal hatred of Jews , his success on this score was doubtful and the anti-Semitic lesson weakened to that extent .
cf14.34.1	pre-adv	At any rate , the substance of Eichmann 's testimony was that all his actions flowed from his membership in the party and the SS , and his success on this score was doubtful , though the Prosecutor did his utmost to prove actual personal hatred of Jews , and the anti-Semitic lesson weakened to that extent .
cf14.35.0	ref	But if the Trial did not expose the special Nazi mania so deadly to Jews as well as to anyone upon whom it happened to light , neither did it warn very effectively against the ordinary anti-Semitism of which the Nazis made such effective use in Germany and wherever else they could find it .
cf14.35.1	post-adj2	But if the Trial did not expose the special Nazi mania so deadly to Jews as well as to anyone upon whom it happened to light , neither did it warn against the ordinary anti-Semitism of which the Nazis made such effective use in Germany and wherever else they could find it very effectively .
cf14.36.0	ref	If anti-Semitism was on trial in Jerusalem , why was it not identified , and with enough emphasis to capture the notice of the world press , in its connection with the activities of Eichmann 's Department of Jewish Affairs , as exemplified by the betrayal and murder of Jews by non-police and non-party anti-Semites in Germany , as well as in Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary ?
cf14.36.1	post-adv	If anti-Semitism was on trial in Jerusalem , why , as exemplified by the betrayal and murder of Jews by non-police and non-party anti-Semites in Germany , as well as in Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary , was it not identified , and with enough emphasis to capture the notice of the world press , in its connection with the activities of Eichmann 's Department of Jewish Affairs ?
cf14.37.0	ref	The infamous Wansee Conference called by Heydrich in January 1942 , to organize the material and technical means to put to death the eleven million Jews spread throughout the nations of Europe , was attended by representatives of major organs of the German state , including the Reich Minister of the Interior , the State Secretary in charge of the Four Year Plan , the Reich Minister of Justice , the Under Secretary of Foreign Affairs .
cf14.37.1	post-adj2	The infamous Wansee Conference called in January 1942 by Heydrich , to organize the material and technical means to put to death the eleven million Jews spread throughout the nations of Europe , was attended by representatives of major organs of the German state , including the Reich Minister of the Interior , the State Secretary in charge of the Four Year Plan , the Reich Minister of Justice , the Under Secretary of Foreign Affairs .
cf14.39.0	ref	Heydrich , in opening the Conference , followed the reasoning and even the phraseology of the order issued earlier by Goering which authorized the Final Solution as `` a complement to '' previous `` solutions '' for eliminating the Jews from German living space through violence , economic strangulation , forced emigration , and evacuation .
cf14.39.1	post-adj2	Heydrich , in opening the Conference , followed the reasoning and even the phraseology of the order issued by Goering earlier which authorized the Final Solution as `` a complement to '' previous `` solutions '' for eliminating the Jews from German living space through violence , economic strangulation , forced emigration , and evacuation .
cf14.42.0	ref	Since the magnitude of the plan made secrecy impossible , once the wheels had began to turn , persons controlling German industries , social institutions , and armed forces became , through their anti-Semitism or their tolerance of it , conscious accomplices of Hitler 's crimes ; whether in the last degree or a lesser one was a matter to be determined individually .
cf14.42.1	post-adv	Since , once the wheels had began to turn , the magnitude of the plan made secrecy impossible , persons controlling German industries , social institutions , and armed forces became , through their anti-Semitism or their tolerance of it , conscious accomplices of Hitler 's crimes ; whether in the last degree or a lesser one was a matter to be determined individually .
cf14.42.2	pre-adv	Persons controlling German industries , social institutions , and armed forces became , through their anti-Semitism or their tolerance of it , conscious accomplices of Hitler 's crimes , since the magnitude of the plan made secrecy impossible , once the wheels had began to turn ; whether in the last degree or a lesser one was a matter to be determined individually .
cf14.43.0	ref	What more could be asked for a Trial intended to warn the world against anti-Semitism than this opportunity to expose the exact link between the respectable Anti-Semite and the concentration-camp brute ?
cf14.43.1	post-adj2	What more could be asked than this opportunity to expose the exact link between the respectable Anti-Semite and the concentration-camp brute for a Trial intended to warn the world against anti-Semitism ?
cf14.45.0	ref	No doubt many of the citizens of the Third Reich had conceived their anti-Semitism as an `` innocent '' dislike of Jews , as do others like them today .
cf14.45.1	post-adv	No doubt many of the citizens of the Third Reich , as do others like them today , had conceived their anti-Semitism as an `` innocent '' dislike of Jews .
cf14.49.0	ref	But if there was evidence at the Trial that aimed over Eichmann 's head at his collaborators in the societies where he functioned , the press seems to have missed it .
cf14.49.1	pre-adv	But the press seems to have missed it , if there was evidence at the Trial that aimed over Eichmann 's head at his collaborators in the societies where he functioned .
cf14.54.0	ref	The career of Eichmann made the Trial a potential showcase for anti-Semitic demoralization : fearful of being mistaken for a Jew , he seeks protection in his Nazi uniform ; clinging to the enemy-Jew idea , he is forced to overcome habits of politeness and neighborliness ; once in power he begins to give vent to a criminal opportunism that causes him to alternate between megalomania and envy of those above him .
cf14.54.1	pre-adv	The career of Eichmann made the Trial a potential showcase for anti-Semitic demoralization : fearful of being mistaken for a Jew , he seeks protection in his Nazi uniform ; clinging to the enemy-Jew idea , he is forced to overcome habits of politeness and neighborliness ; he begins to give vent to a criminal opportunism that causes him to alternate between megalomania and envy of those above him once in power .
cf14.56.0	ref	But though this characterization in no way diminished Eichmann 's guilt , the Prosecutor , more deeply involved in the tactics of a criminal case than a political one , would have none of it .
cf14.56.1	pre-adv	But the Prosecutor , more deeply involved in the tactics of a criminal case than a political one , would have none of it , though this characterization in no way diminished Eichmann 's guilt .
cf14.60.0	ref	As the first collective confrontation of the Nazi outrage , the Trial of Eichmann represents a recovery of the Jews from the shock of the death camps , a recovery that took fifteen years and which is still by no means complete -LRB- though let no one believe that it could be hastened by silence -RRB- .
cf14.60.1	post-adv	-LRB- Though let no one believe that it could be hastened by silence -RRB- as the first collective confrontation of the Nazi outrage , the Trial of Eichmann represents a recovery of the Jews from the shock of the death camps , a recovery that took fifteen years and which is still by no means complete .
cf14.60.2	post-adj2	As the first collective confrontation of the Nazi outrage , the Trial of Eichmann represents a recovery of the Jews from the shock of the death camps , a recovery that took fifteen years and which is by no means still complete -LRB- though let no one believe that it could be hastened by silence -RRB- .
cf15.1.0	ref	In Poughkeepsie , N.Y. , in 1952 , a Roman Catholic hospital presented seven Protestant physicians with an ultimatum to quit the Planned Parenthood Federation or to resign from the hospital staff .
cf15.1.1	pre-adj2	In 1952 , in Poughkeepsie , N.Y. , a Roman Catholic hospital presented seven Protestant physicians with an ultimatum to quit the Planned Parenthood Federation or to resign from the hospital staff .
cf15.5.0	ref	In New York City in 1958 , the city 's Commissioner of Hospitals refused to permit a physician to provide a Protestant mother with a contraceptive device .
cf15.5.1	pre-adj2	In 1958 in New York City , the city 's Commissioner of Hospitals refused to permit a physician to provide a Protestant mother with a contraceptive device .
cf15.6.0	ref	He thereby precipitated a bitter controversy involving Protestants , Jews and Roman Catholics that continued for two months , until the city 's Board of Hospitals lifted the ban on birth-control therapy .
cf15.6.1	post-adv	He thereby precipitated a bitter controversy involving Protestants , Jews and Roman Catholics that , until the city 's Board of Hospitals lifted the ban on birth-control therapy , continued for two months .
cf15.7.0	ref	A year later in Albany , N.Y. , a Roman Catholic hospital barred an orthopedic surgeon because of his connection with the Planned Parenthood Association .
cf15.7.1	pre-adj2	In Albany , N.Y. a year later , a Roman Catholic hospital barred an orthopedic surgeon because of his connection with the Planned Parenthood Association .
cf15.10.0	ref	It has flared up periodically on the front pages of newspapers in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies .
cf15.10.1	post-adj3	It has flared up on the front pages of newspapers periodically in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies .
cf15.10.2	post-adj3	It has flared up in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies on the front pages of newspapers periodically .
cf15.10.3	post-adj3	It has flared up periodically in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies on the front pages of newspapers .
cf15.10.4	post-adj3	It has flared up in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies periodically on the front pages of newspapers .
cf15.10.5	post-adj3	It has flared up on the front pages of newspapers in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies periodically .
cf15.11.0	ref	It has erupted on the national level in the matter of including birth-control information and material in foreign aid to underdeveloped countries .
cf15.11.1	post-adj2	It has erupted in the matter of including birth-control information and material in foreign aid to underdeveloped countries on the national level .
cf15.15.0	ref	Instead of emotional recrimination , loaded phrases and sloganeering , we need a dispassionate study of the facts , a better understanding of the opposite viewpoint and a more serious effort to extend the areas of agreement until a solution is reached .
cf15.15.1	post-adv	Instead of emotional recrimination , loaded phrases and sloganeering , we need a dispassionate study of the facts , a better understanding of the opposite viewpoint and a more serious effort until a solution is reached to extend the areas of agreement .
cf15.19.0	ref	Instead of Catholics ' being obliged or even encouraged to beget the greatest possible number of offspring , as many Non-Catholics imagine , the ideal of responsible parenthood is stressed .
cf15.19.1	post-adv	Instead of Catholics ' , as many Non-Catholics imagine , being obliged or even encouraged to beget the greatest possible number of offspring , the ideal of responsible parenthood is stressed .
cf15.20.0	ref	Family planning is encouraged , so that parents will be able to provide properly for their offspring .
cf15.20.1	post-adv	Family planning , so that parents will be able to provide properly for their offspring , is encouraged .
cf15.20.2	post-adj2	Family planning is encouraged , so that parents will be able to provide for their offspring properly .
cf15.21.0	ref	Pope Pius 12 , declared in 1951 that it is possible to be exempt from the normal obligation of parenthood for a long time and even for the whole duration of married life , if there are serious reasons , such as those often mentioned in the so-called medical , eugenic , economic and social `` indications '' .
cf15.21.1	post-adv	Pope Pius 12 , declared in 1951 that , if there are serious reasons , such as those often mentioned in the so-called medical , eugenic , economic and social `` indications '' , it is possible to be exempt from the normal obligation of parenthood for a long time and even for the whole duration of married life .
cf15.39.0	ref	But people differ in their religious beliefs on scores of doctrines , without taking up arms against those who disagree with them .
cf15.39.1	post-adj3	But people differ on scores of doctrines in their religious beliefs , without taking up arms against those who disagree with them .
cf15.39.2	post-adj3	But people differ without taking up arms against those who disagree with them on scores of doctrines , in their religious beliefs .
cf15.39.3	post-adj3	But people differ in their religious beliefs without taking up arms against those who disagree with them , on scores of doctrines .
cf15.39.4	post-adj3	But people differ , without taking up arms against those who disagree with them , in their religious beliefs on scores of doctrines .
cf15.39.5	post-adj3	But people differ on scores of doctrines , without taking up arms against those who disagree with them in their religious beliefs .
cf15.43.0	ref	Both Roman Catholics and Protestants have succumbed to this temptation in the past .
cf15.43.1	post-adj2	Both Roman Catholics and Protestants have succumbed in the past to this temptation .
cf15.46.0	ref	With over four million American men away at war , Protestants forced their distinctive theological belief upon the general public .
cf15.46.1	pre-adv	Protestants forced their distinctive theological belief upon the general public , with over four million American men away at war .
cf15.50.0	ref	That tumultuous , painful and costly experience shows clearly that a law expressing a moral judgment can not be enforced when it has little correspondence with the general view of society .
cf15.50.1	post-adv	That tumultuous , painful and costly experience shows clearly that a law expressing a moral judgment can not when it has little correspondence with the general view of society be enforced .
cf15.51.0	ref	That experience holds a lesson for us all in regard to birth control today .
cf15.51.1	post-adj3	That experience holds a lesson in regard to birth control for us all today .
cf15.51.2	post-adj3	That experience holds a lesson today in regard to birth control for us all .
cf15.51.3	post-adj3	That experience holds a lesson for us all today in regard to birth control .
cf15.51.4	post-adj3	That experience holds a lesson , today , for us all in regard to birth control .
cf15.51.5	post-adj3	That experience holds a lesson in regard to birth control today , for us all .
cf15.52.0	ref	Up to the turn of the century , contraception was condemned by all Christian churches as immoral , unnatural and contrary to divine law .
cf15.52.1	post-adj2	Up to the turn of the century , contraception was condemned as immoral , unnatural and contrary to divine law by all Christian churches .
cf15.54.0	ref	Today , the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches stand virtually alone in holding that conviction .
cf15.54.1	post-adj2	Today , the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches stand in holding that conviction virtually alone .
cf15.72.0	ref	The general board declared : `` Most of the Protestant churches hold contraception and periodic continence to be morally right when the motives are right .
cf15.72.1	post-adv	The general board declared : `` Most of the Protestant churches hold contraception and periodic continence when the motives are right to be morally right .
cf15.81.0	ref	Only confusion , failure and anarchy result when the effort is made to impose upon the civil authority the impossible task of policing private homes to preclude the possibility of sin .
cf15.81.1	post-adv	When the effort is made to impose upon the civil authority the impossible task of policing private homes to preclude the possibility of sin only confusion , failure and anarchy result .
cf16.3.0	ref	Seventeen months later , on September 6 , 1611 , an Irish fishing boat sighted the Discovery limping eastward outside Galway Bay .
cf16.3.1	pre-adj2	On September 6 , 1611 , seventeen months later , an Irish fishing boat sighted the Discovery limping eastward outside Galway Bay .
cf16.3.2	post-adj2	Seventeen months later , on September 6 , 1611 , an Irish fishing boat sighted the Discovery limping outside Galway Bay eastward .
cf16.4.0	ref	When she reached port , she was found to have on board only eight men , all near starvation .
cf16.4.1	pre-adv	She was found to have on board only eight men , all near starvation , when she reached port .
cf16.13.0	ref	Not enough to do away with all doubts , but sufficient to give a fairly accurate picture of the events of the voyage .
cf16.13.1	post-adj2	Not enough to do with all doubts away , but sufficient to give a fairly accurate picture of the events of the voyage .
cf16.14.0	ref	Historians have had two reasons for persisting so long in their investigations .
cf16.14.1	post-adj2	Historians have had two reasons for persisting in their investigations so long .
cf16.22.0	ref	In 1609 , the Dutch East India Company hired Hudson , gave him two learned geographers , fitted him out with a ship called the Half Moon , and supplied him with Dutch sailors .
cf16.22.1	dat-np-np	In 1609 , the Dutch East India Company hired Hudson , gave two learned geographers to him , fitted him out with a ship called the Half Moon , and supplied him with Dutch sailors .
cf16.23.0	ref	This time he turned westward , to the middle Atlantic coast of North America .
cf16.23.1	post-adj2	This time he turned to the middle Atlantic coast of North America , westward .
cf16.25.0	ref	When the Half Moon put in at Dartmouth , England , in the fall of 1609 , word of Hudson 's findings leaked out , and English interest in him revived .
cf16.25.1	pre-adv	Word of Hudson 's findings leaked out , when the Half Moon put in at Dartmouth , England , in the fall of 1609 , and English interest in him revived .
cf16.25.2	post-adj2	When the Half Moon put in in the fall of 1609 , at Dartmouth , England , word of Hudson 's findings leaked out , and English interest in him revived .
cf16.26.0	ref	The government forbade Hudson to return to Amsterdam with his ship .
cf16.26.1	post-adj2	The government forbade Hudson to return with his ship to Amsterdam .
cf16.35.0	ref	Nearly twenty-five years before , Captain John Davis had noted , as he sailed near the Arctic Circle , `` a very great gulf , the water whirling and roaring , as it were the meeting of tides '' .
cf16.35.1	post-adv	Nearly twenty-five years before , Captain John Davis , as he sailed near the Arctic Circle , had noted `` a very great gulf , the water whirling and roaring , as it were the meeting of tides '' .
cf16.35.2	post-adv	Nearly twenty-five years before , Captain John Davis had noted , as he sailed near the Arctic Circle , `` a very great gulf , as it were the meeting of tides , the water whirling and roaring '' .
cf16.38.0	ref	In 1602 , George Waymouth , in the same little Discovery that Hudson now commanded , had sailed 300 miles up the strait before his frightened men turned the ship back .
cf16.38.1	post-adv	In 1602 , George Waymouth , in the same little Discovery that Hudson now commanded , before his frightened men turned the ship back had sailed 300 miles up the strait .
cf16.40.0	ref	Even Hudson , experienced in Arctic sailing and determined as he was , must have had qualms as he slid down the Thames .
cf16.40.1	post-adv	Even Hudson , experienced in Arctic sailing and determined as he was , must as he slid down the Thames have had qualms .
cf16.43.0	ref	On the second voyage , he had turned back at the frozen island of Novaya Zemlya and meekly given the crew a certificate stating that he did so of his own free will -- which was obviously not the case .
cf16.43.1	dat-np-np	On the second voyage , he had turned back at the frozen island of Novaya Zemlya and meekly given a certificate stating that he did so of his own free will -- which was obviously not the case to the crew .
cf16.43.2	post-adj2	On the second voyage , he had turned at the frozen island of Novaya Zemlya back and meekly given the crew a certificate stating that he did so of his own free will -- which was obviously not the case .
cf16.45.0	ref	Worse , his present crew included five men who had sailed with him before .
cf16.45.1	post-adj2	Worse , his present crew included five men who had sailed before with him .
cf16.49.0	ref	Arnold Lodley and Michael Perse were like the rest -- lukewarm , ready to swing against Hudson in a crisis .
cf16.49.1	post-adj2	Arnold Lodley and Michael Perse were like the rest -- lukewarm , ready to swing in a crisis against Hudson .
cf16.50.0	ref	But men willing to sail at all into waters where wooden ships could be crushed like eggs were hard to find .
cf16.50.1	post-adj2	But men willing to sail into waters where wooden ships could be crushed like eggs at all were hard to find .
cf16.59.0	ref	Greene was in actuality a young ruffian from Kent , who had broken with his parents in order to keep the company he preferred -- pimps , panders and whores .
cf16.59.1	post-adv	Greene was in actuality a young ruffian from Kent , who in order to keep the company he preferred -- pimps , panders and whores had broken with his parents .
cf16.69.0	ref	Floating ice bore down from the north and west .
cf16.69.1	post-adj2	Floating ice bore from the north and west down .
cf16.70.0	ref	Fog hung over the route constantly .
cf16.70.1	post-adj2	Fog hung constantly over the route .
cf16.73.0	ref	As the bergs grew larger , Hudson was forced to turn south into what is now Ungava Bay , an inlet of the Great Strait .
cf16.73.1	pre-adv	Hudson was forced to turn south into what is now Ungava Bay , an inlet of the Great Strait , as the bergs grew larger .
cf16.73.2	post-adj2	As the bergs grew larger , Hudson was forced to turn into what is now Ungava Bay , an inlet of the Great Strait south .
cf16.74.0	ref	After finding that its coasts led nowhere , however , he turned north again , toward the main , ice-filled passageway -- and the crew , at first uneasy , then frightened , rebelled .
cf16.74.1	pre-adj2	However , after finding that its coasts led nowhere , he turned north again , toward the main , ice-filled passageway -- and the crew , at first uneasy , then frightened , rebelled .
cf16.79.0	ref	Instead of quelling the dissension , as many captains of the era would have done -LRB- Sir Francis Drake lopped a man 's head off under similar circumstances -RRB- , Hudson decided to be reasonable .
cf16.79.1	post-adv	Instead of , as many captains of the era would have done , quelling the dissension -LRB- Sir Francis Drake lopped a man 's head off under similar circumstances -RRB- , Hudson decided to be reasonable .
cf16.82.0	ref	When Hudson had finished , the `` town meeting '' broke down into a general , wordy argument .
cf16.82.1	pre-adv	The `` town meeting '' broke down into a general , wordy argument , when Hudson had finished .
cf16.83.0	ref	One man remarked that if he had a hundred pounds , he would give ninety of them to be back in England .
cf16.83.1	pre-adv	One man remarked that he would give ninety of them to be back in England , if he had a hundred pounds .
cf16.91.0	ref	To port was a point 200 feet high rising behind to a precipice of 2,000 feet .
cf16.91.1	post-adj2	To port was a point 200 feet high rising to a precipice of 2,000 feet behind .
cf16.94.0	ref	After three weeks ' swift sailing , however , the ship entered an area of shallow marshes and river deltas .
cf16.94.1	pre-adj2	However , after three weeks ' swift sailing , the ship entered an area of shallow marshes and river deltas .
cf16.101.0	ref	North and south , east and west , back and forth he sailed in the land-locked bay , plowing furiously forward until land appeared , then turning to repeat the process , day after day , week after week .
cf16.101.1	pre-adj2	Back and forth , north and south , east and west he sailed in the land-locked bay , plowing furiously forward until land appeared , then turning to repeat the process , day after day , week after week .
cf16.101.2	post-adv	North and south , east and west , back and forth he sailed in the land-locked bay , until land appeared plowing furiously forward , then turning to repeat the process , day after day , week after week .
cf16.103.0	ref	The men were at first puzzled , then angered by the aimless tacking .
cf16.103.1	post-adj2	The men were at first puzzled , by the aimless tacking angered then .
cf16.117.0	ref	As Hudson resumed his desperate criss-crossing of the little bay , every incident lessened the crew 's respect for him .
cf16.117.1	pre-adv	Every incident lessened the crew 's respect for him , as Hudson resumed his desperate criss-crossing of the little bay .
cf16.118.0	ref	Once , after the Discovery lay for a week in rough weather , Hudson ordered the anchor raised before the sea had calmed .
cf16.118.1	post-adv	Before the sea had calmed once , after the Discovery lay for a week in rough weather , Hudson ordered the anchor raised .
cf16.118.2	pre-adv	Once Hudson ordered the anchor raised before the sea had calmed , after the Discovery lay for a week in rough weather .
cf16.118.3	post-adj2	Once , after the Discovery lay in rough weather for a week , Hudson ordered the anchor raised before the sea had calmed .
cf16.119.0	ref	Just as it was being hauled inboard , a sea hit the ship .
cf16.119.1	pre-adv	A sea hit the ship , just as it was being hauled inboard .
cf17.2.0	ref	Since the land he desired lay within the great northern empire of the Hudson 's Bay Company , he purchased great blocks of the Comany 's stock with the view to controlling its policies .
cf17.2.1	pre-adv	He purchased great blocks of the Comany 's stock with the view to controlling its policies , since the land he desired lay within the great northern empire of the Hudson 's Bay Company .
cf17.4.0	ref	The grant , which stretched southward to Lake Traverse -- the headwaters of the Red -- was made in May , 1811 , and by October of that year a small group of Scots was settling for the winter at York Factory on Hudson Bay .
cf17.4.1	post-adj2	The grant , which stretched to Lake Traverse -- the headwaters of the Red -- southward was made in May , 1811 , and by October of that year a small group of Scots was settling for the winter at York Factory on Hudson Bay .
cf17.5.0	ref	Thus at the same time that William Henry Harrison was preparing to pacify the aborigines of Indiana Territory and winning fame at the battle of Tippecanoe , Anglo-Saxon settlement made a great leap into the center of the North American continent to the west of the American agricultural frontier .
cf17.5.1	pre-adj2	At the same time that William Henry Harrison was preparing to pacify the aborigines of Indiana Territory and winning fame at the battle of Tippecanoe thus , Anglo-Saxon settlement made a great leap into the center of the North American continent to the west of the American agricultural frontier .
cf17.6.0	ref	Seven hundred miles south of York Factory , at `` the Forks '' of the Red and the Assiniboine , twenty-three men located a settlement in August 1812 .
cf17.6.1	pre-adj2	At `` the Forks '' of the Red and the Assiniboine , seven hundred miles south of York Factory , twenty-three men located a settlement in August 1812 .
cf17.9.0	ref	The latter , members of two regiments of Swiss mercenaries transported by Great Britain to Canada to fight the Americans in the War of 1812 , had settled in Montreal and Kingston at the close of the war in 1815 .
cf17.9.1	post-adj2	The latter , members of two regiments of Swiss mercenaries transported to Canada by Great Britain to fight the Americans in the War of 1812 , had settled in Montreal and Kingston at the close of the war in 1815 .
cf17.13.0	ref	When late in the summer the full extent of the damage was assessed , all but fifty of the Scots , Swiss and metis moved up the Red to the mouth of the Pembina river .
cf17.13.1	pre-adv	All but fifty of the Scots , Swiss and metis moved up the Red to the mouth of the Pembina river , when late in the summer the full extent of the damage was assessed .
cf17.13.2	post-adj2	When late in the summer the full extent of the damage was assessed , all but fifty of the Scots , Swiss and metis moved to the mouth of the Pembina river up the Red .
cf17.16.0	ref	The Selkirk settlers had been anticipated in their move southward by British fur traders .
cf17.16.1	post-adj2	The Selkirk settlers had been anticipated by British fur traders in their move southward .
cf17.18.0	ref	When in 1816 an act of Congress forced the foreign firm out of the United States , its British-born employees , now become American citizens -- Joseph Rolette , Joseph Renville and Alexis Bailly -- continued in the fur business .
cf17.18.1	pre-adv	Its British-born employees , now become American citizens -- Joseph Rolette , Joseph Renville and Alexis Bailly -- continued in the fur business , when in 1816 an act of Congress forced the foreign firm out of the United States .
cf17.19.0	ref	On Big Stone Lake near the headwaters of the Red River , Robert Dickson , Superintendent of the Western Indian Department of Canada , had a trading post and planned in 1818 to build a fort to be defended by twenty men and two small artillery pieces .
cf17.19.1	pre-adj2	Near the headwaters of the Red River on Big Stone Lake , Robert Dickson , Superintendent of the Western Indian Department of Canada , had a trading post and planned in 1818 to build a fort to be defended by twenty men and two small artillery pieces .
cf17.20.0	ref	His trading goods came from Canada to the Forks of Red River and from Selkirk 's settlement he brought them south in carts .
cf17.20.1	post-adj2	His trading goods came to the Forks of Red River from Canada and from Selkirk 's settlement he brought them south in carts .
cf17.21.0	ref	These carts were of a type devised in Pembina in the days of Alexander Henry the Younger about a decade before the Selkirk colony was begun .
cf17.21.1	post-adv	These carts were of about a decade before the Selkirk colony was begun a type devised in Pembina in the days of Alexander Henry the Younger .
cf17.21.2	post-adj2	These carts were of a type devised in the days of Alexander Henry the Younger in Pembina about a decade before the Selkirk colony was begun .
cf17.22.0	ref	In 1802 Henry referred to `` our new carts '' as being about four feet off the ground and carrying five times as much as a horse could pack .
cf17.22.1	post-adj2	In 1802 Henry referred as being about four feet off the ground and carrying five times as much as a horse could pack to `` our new carts '' .
cf17.23.0	ref	They were held together by pegs and withes and in later times drawn by a single ox in thills .
cf17.23.1	post-adj2	They were held by pegs and withes together and in later times drawn by a single ox in thills .
cf17.25.0	ref	In September 1817 at Fort Daer -LRB- Pembina -RRB- Dickson met the noble lord whom , with the help of a band of Sioux , he escorted to Prairie Du Chien .
cf17.25.1	pre-adj2	At Fort Daer -LRB- Pembina -RRB- in September 1817 Dickson met the noble lord whom , with the help of a band of Sioux , he escorted to Prairie Du Chien .
cf17.28.0	ref	This traffic , he declared prophetically , `` tho ' it might be of small account at first , would increase with the progress of our Settlements . ''
cf17.28.1	pre-adv	This traffic , he declared prophetically , would increase with the progress of our Settlements `` tho ' it might be of small account at first . ''
cf17.32.0	ref	With these completed and ice gone from the St. Peter 's River -LRB- present-day Minnesota river -RRB- their 250 bushels of wheat , 100 bushels of oats and barley and 30 bushels of peas and some chickens were loaded onto the flat-bottomed boats and rowed up the river to Big Stone Lake , across into Lake Traverse , and down the Red .
cf17.32.1	pre-adv	Their 250 bushels of wheat , 100 bushels of oats and barley and 30 bushels of peas and some chickens were loaded onto the flat-bottomed boats and rowed up the river to Big Stone Lake , across into Lake Traverse , and down the Red with these completed and ice gone from the St. Peter 's River -LRB- present-day Minnesota river -RRB- .
cf17.34.0	ref	This epic effort to secure seed for the colony cost Selkirk Ab1,040 .
cf17.34.1	dat-np-np	This epic effort to secure seed for the colony cost Ab1,040 to Selkirk .
cf17.35.0	ref	Nevertheless so short was the supply of seed that the settlers were forced to retreat to Fort Daer for food .
cf17.35.1	post-adj2	Nevertheless so short was the supply of seed that the settlers were forced to retreat for food to Fort Daer .
cf17.36.0	ref	Thereafter seed and food became more plentiful and the colony remained in the north the year round .
cf17.36.1	post-adj2	Thereafter seed and food became more plentiful and the colony remained the year round in the north .
cf17.42.0	ref	He set out on his 700-mile return journey with five families of discontented and disappointed Swiss who turned their eyes toward the United States .
cf17.42.1	post-adj2	He set out with five families of discontented and disappointed Swiss who turned their eyes toward the United States on his 700-mile return journey .
cf17.44.0	ref	As these Swiss were moving from the Selkirk settlement to become the first civilian residents of Minnesota , Dousman of Michilimackinac , Michigan , and Prairie Du Chien was traveling to Red River to open a trade in merchandise .
cf17.44.1	pre-adv	Dousman of Michilimackinac , Michigan , and Prairie Du Chien was traveling to Red River to open a trade in merchandise , as these Swiss were moving from the Selkirk settlement to become the first civilian residents of Minnesota .
cf17.48.0	ref	As the time drew near for the drawing of the British-American frontier by terms of the agreement of 1818 , the company suspected that the Pembina colony -- its own post and Fort Daer -- was on American territory .
cf17.48.1	pre-adv	The company suspected that the Pembina colony -- its own post and Fort Daer -- was on American territory , as the time drew near for the drawing of the British-American frontier by terms of the agreement of 1818 .
cf17.48.2	post-adj2	As the time drew for the drawing of the British-American frontier by terms of the agreement of 1818 near , the company suspected that the Pembina colony -- its own post and Fort Daer -- was on American territory .
cf17.60.0	ref	Below the fort , high bluffs extended uninterruptedly for six miles along the Mississippi River .
cf17.60.1	post-adj3	Below the fort , high bluffs extended for six miles uninterruptedly along the Mississippi River .
cf17.60.2	post-adj3	Below the fort , high bluffs extended along the Mississippi River for six miles uninterruptedly .
cf17.60.3	post-adj3	Below the fort , high bluffs extended uninterruptedly along the Mississippi River for six miles .
cf17.60.4	post-adj3	Below the fort , high bluffs extended along the Mississippi River uninterruptedly for six miles .
cf17.60.5	post-adj3	Below the fort , high bluffs extended for six miles along the Mississippi River uninterruptedly .
cf17.62.0	ref	Its people , including Pierre Bottineau and other American Fur Company employees and the refugees from Fort Garry , were joined by the remaining Scots and Swiss from Fort Snelling when Major Joseph Plympton expelled them from the reservation in May 1840 .
cf17.62.1	post-adv	Its people , including Pierre Bottineau and other American Fur Company employees and the refugees from Fort Garry , when Major Joseph Plympton expelled them from the reservation in May 1840 were joined by the remaining Scots and Swiss from Fort Snelling .
cf17.64.0	ref	While population at Fort Garry increased rapidly , from 2,417 in 1831 to 4,369 in 1840 , economic opportunities did not increase at a similar rate .
cf17.64.1	pre-adv	Economic opportunities did not increase at a similar rate , while population at Fort Garry increased rapidly , from 2,417 in 1831 to 4,369 in 1840 .
cf17.64.2	post-adj2	While population at Fort Garry increased from 2,417 in 1831 to 4,369 in 1840 , rapidly , economic opportunities did not increase at a similar rate .
cf17.65.0	ref	Accordingly , though the practice violated the no-trading provision of the Selkirk charter which reserved all such activity in merchandise and furs to the Hudson 's Bay Company , some settlers went into trade .
cf17.65.1	pre-adv	Accordingly some settlers went into trade , though the practice violated the no-trading provision of the Selkirk charter which reserved all such activity in merchandise and furs to the Hudson 's Bay Company .
cf17.66.0	ref	The Company maintained a store at which products of England could be purchased and brought in goods for the new merchants on the understanding that they refrain from trading in furs .
cf17.66.1	post-adj2	The Company maintained a store at which products of England could be purchased and brought on the understanding that they refrain from trading in furs goods for the new merchants in .
cf17.67.0	ref	Despite this prohibiton , by 1844 some of the Fort Garry merchants were trading with the Indians for furs .
cf17.67.1	pre-adj2	By 1844 , despite this prohibiton some of the Fort Garry merchants were trading with the Indians for furs .
cf17.67.2	post-adj2	Despite this prohibiton , by 1844 some of the Fort Garry merchants were trading for furs with the Indians .
cf17.70.0	ref	With their customary source of supply cut off , the Fort Garry free traders engaged three men to cart goods to them from the Mississippi country .
cf17.70.1	pre-adv	The Fort Garry free traders engaged three men to cart goods to them from the Mississippi country , with their customary source of supply cut off .
cf17.70.2	post-adj2	With their customary source of supply cut off , the Fort Garry free traders engaged three men to cart goods from the Mississippi country to them .
cf18.5.0	ref	Another reported that his comrades were `` in fine spirits pitching around like a blind dog in a meat house '' .
cf18.5.1	post-adj2	Another reported that his comrades were `` in fine spirits pitching like a blind dog in a meat house around '' .
cf18.17.0	ref	When you see them again give them my love -- not best respects now , but love by God '' .
cf18.17.1	dat-np-np	When you see them again give my love -- not best respects now , but love by God to them '' .
cf18.17.2	pre-adv	Give them my love -- not best respects now , but love by God , when you see them again '' .
cf18.19.0	ref	After he had been away from home about a year he wrote : `` -LRB- dear Wife -RRB- if I did not write and receive letters from you I believe that I would forgit that I was married .
cf18.19.1	post-adv	If I did not write and receive letters from you after he had been away from home about a year he wrote : `` -LRB- dear Wife -RRB- I believe that I would forgit that I was married .
cf18.19.2	pre-adv	He wrote : `` -LRB- dear Wife -RRB- if I did not write and receive letters from you I believe that I would forgit that I was married after he had been away from home about a year .
cf18.19.3	pre-adv	After he had been away from home about a year he wrote : `` -LRB- dear Wife -RRB- I believe that I would forgit that I was married if I did not write and receive letters from you .
cf18.19.4	post-adj2	After he had been about a year away from home he wrote : `` -LRB- dear Wife -RRB- if I did not write and receive letters from you I believe that I would forgit that I was married .
cf18.20.0	ref	I do n't feel much like a maryed man but I never forgit it sofar as to court enny other lady but if I should you must forgive me as I am so forgitful '' .
cf18.20.1	post-adv	I do n't feel much like a maryed man but I never forgit it sofar as to court enny other lady but if I should you as I am so forgitful must forgive me '' .
cf18.20.2	pre-adv	I do n't feel much like a maryed man but I never forgit it sofar as to court enny other lady but you must forgive me as I am so forgitful if I should '' .
cf18.22.0	ref	Another Yank parodied the familiar bedtime prayer : `` now I lay me down to sleep , the gray-backs o'er my body creep ; if they should bite before I wake , I pray the Lord their jaws to break '' .
cf18.22.1	post-adv	Another Yank parodied the familiar bedtime prayer : `` now I lay me down to sleep , the gray-backs o'er my body creep ; if they before I wake should bite , I pray the Lord their jaws to break '' .
cf18.22.2	pre-adv	Another Yank parodied the familiar bedtime prayer : `` now I lay me down to sleep , the gray-backs o'er my body creep ; I pray the Lord their jaws to break , if they should bite before I wake '' .
cf18.23.0	ref	Charles Thiot , a splendid Georgia soldier , differed from most of his comrades in the ranks in that he was the owner of a large plantation , well-educated , and nearly fifty years of age .
cf18.23.1	post-adj2	Charles Thiot , a splendid Georgia soldier , differed in that he was the owner of a large plantation , well-educated , and nearly fifty years of age from most of his comrades in the ranks .
cf18.25.0	ref	Near the end of his service he wrote that when the war was over he was going to buy two pups , name one of them `` Fall-in '' and the other `` Close-up '' , and then shoot them both , `` and that will be the end of Fall-in and Close-up '' .
cf18.25.1	pre-adv	Near the end of his service he wrote that he was going to buy two pups , name one of them `` Fall-in '' and the other `` Close-up '' , and then shoot them both when the war was over , `` and that will be the end of Fall-in and Close-up '' .
cf18.27.0	ref	They talked and wrote much about the elemental functions of the body .
cf18.27.1	post-adj2	They talked and wrote about the elemental functions of the body much .
cf18.29.0	ref	Men of more delicate sensibilities referred to this condition as `` looseness of the bowels '' ; but a much more common designation was `` the sh-ts '' .
cf18.29.1	post-adj2	Men of more delicate sensibilities referred as `` looseness of the bowels '' to this condition ; but a much more common designation was `` the sh-ts '' .
cf18.31.0	ref	Johnny Rebs from the deep South who were plagued with diarrhoea after transfer to the Virginia front often informed their families that they were suffering from the `` the Virginia quickstep '' .
cf18.31.1	post-adj2	Johnny Rebs from the deep South who were plagued after transfer to the Virginia front with diarrhoea often informed their families that they were suffering from the `` the Virginia quickstep '' .
cf18.32.0	ref	A Georgia soldier gave his wife the following description of the cause and consequence of diarrhoea : `` I have bin a little sick with diorah two or three days .
cf18.32.1	dat-np-np	A Georgia soldier gave the following description of the cause and consequence of diarrhoea : `` I have bin a little sick with diorah two or three days to his wife .
cf18.35.0	ref	A Michigan soldier wrote his brother : `` I am well at present with the exception I have got the Dyerear and I hope thease few lines find you the same '' .
cf18.35.1	post-adj2	A Michigan soldier wrote his brother : `` I am well with the exception I have got the Dyerear at present and I hope thease few lines find you the same '' .
cf18.36.0	ref	The letters which poured forth from camps were usually written under adverse circumstances .
cf18.36.1	post-adj2	The letters which poured from camps forth were usually written under adverse circumstances .
cf18.38.0	ref	Most of the letters were written in the hubbub of camp , on stumps , pieces of bark , drum heads , or the knee .
cf18.38.1	post-adj2	Most of the letters were written on stumps , pieces of bark , drum heads , or the knee , in the hubbub of camp .
cf18.39.0	ref	In the South , after the first year of the war , paper and ink were very poor .
cf18.39.1	pre-adj2	After the first year of the war , in the South , paper and ink were very poor .
cf18.40.0	ref	Scarcity of paper caused many Southerners to adopt the practice of cross-writing , i.e. , after writing from left to right of the page in the usual manner , they gave the sheet a half turn and wrote from end to end across the lines previously written .
cf18.40.1	dat-np-np	Scarcity of paper caused many Southerners to adopt the practice of cross-writing , i.e. , after writing from left to right of the page in the usual manner , they gave a half turn to the sheet and wrote from end to end across the lines previously written .
cf18.40.2	post-adj2	Scarcity of paper caused many Southerners to adopt the practice of cross-writing , i.e. , after writing in the usual manner from left to right of the page , they gave the sheet a half turn and wrote from end to end across the lines previously written .
cf18.41.0	ref	Sometimes soldiers wrote letters while bullets were whizzing about their heads .
cf18.41.1	post-adv	While bullets were whizzing about their heads sometimes soldiers wrote letters .
cf18.42.0	ref	A Yank writing from Vicksburg , May 28 , 1863 , stated : `` not less than 50 balls have passed over me since I commenced writing .
cf18.42.1	post-adv	A Yank writing from Vicksburg , May 28 , 1863 , stated : `` not less than 50 balls since I commenced writing have passed over me .
cf18.42.2	post-adj2	A Yank writing May 28 , 1863 , from Vicksburg , stated : `` not less than 50 balls have passed over me since I commenced writing .
cf18.44.0	ref	A Reb stationed near Petersburg informed his mother : `` I need not tell you that I dodge pretty often for you can see that very plainly by the blots in this letter .
cf18.44.1	post-adv	A Reb stationed near Petersburg informed his mother : `` I for you can see that very plainly by the blots in this letter need not tell you that I dodge pretty often .
cf18.45.0	ref	Just count each blot a dodge and add in a few for I do n't dodge every time '' .
cf18.45.1	post-adv	Just for I do n't dodge every time count each blot a dodge and add in a few '' .
cf18.46.0	ref	Another Reb writing under similar circumstances before Atlanta reported : `` the Yankees keep shooting so I am afraid they will knock over my ink , so I will close '' .
cf18.46.1	post-adj2	Another Reb writing before Atlanta under similar circumstances reported : `` the Yankees keep shooting so I am afraid they will knock over my ink , so I will close '' .
cf18.52.0	ref	Early in the war it was not uncommon for planters ' sons to retain in camp Negro `` body servants '' to perform the menial chores such as cooking , foraging , cleaning the quarters , shining shoes , and laundering clothes .
cf18.52.1	post-adv	Early in the war it was not uncommon for planters ' sons to perform the menial chores such as cooking , foraging , cleaning the quarters , shining shoes , and laundering clothes to retain in camp Negro `` body servants '' .
cf18.56.0	ref	Occasionally gay young blades would write vividly to boon companions at home about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville .
cf18.56.1	post-adj3	Occasionally gay young blades would write to boon companions at home vividly about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville .
cf18.56.2	post-adj3	Occasionally gay young blades would write about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville to boon companions at home vividly .
cf18.56.3	post-adj3	Occasionally gay young blades would write vividly about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville to boon companions at home .
cf18.56.4	post-adj3	Occasionally gay young blades would write about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville vividly to boon companions at home .
cf18.56.5	post-adj3	Occasionally gay young blades would write to boon companions at home about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville vividly .
cf18.58.0	ref	An Alabama soldier whose feminine associations were of the more admirable type wrote boastfully of his achievements among the Virginia belles : `` they thout I was a saint .
cf18.58.1	post-adj2	An Alabama soldier whose feminine associations were of the more admirable type wrote of his achievements among the Virginia belles boastfully : `` they thout I was a saint .
cf18.59.0	ref	I told them some sweet lies and they believed it all .
cf18.59.1	dat-np-np	I told some sweet lies to them and they believed it all .
cf18.61.0	ref	But I wold say I recond he did not mind it for he had a plenty more left and then they would lean to me like a sore eyd kitten to a basin of milk '' .
cf18.61.1	post-adv	But I wold say for he had a plenty more left I recond he did not mind it and then they would lean to me like a sore eyd kitten to a basin of milk '' .
cf18.61.2	post-adj2	But I wold say I recond he did not mind it for he had a plenty more left and then they would lean like a sore eyd kitten to a basin of milk to me '' .
cf18.63.0	ref	An Ohio soldier who , from a comrade just returned from leave , received an unfavorable comment on the conduct of his sister , took pen in hand and delivered himself thus : `` dear Sis .
cf18.63.1	dat-np-np	An Ohio soldier who , from a comrade just returned from leave , received an unfavorable comment on the conduct of his sister , took pen in hand and delivered dear Sis thus : `` to himself .
cf18.64.0	ref	Alf sed he heard that you and Hardy was a runing together all the time and he though he wod gust quit having any thing mor to doo with you for he thought it was no more yuse .
cf18.64.1	post-adv	Alf sed he heard that you and Hardy was a runing together all the time and he though he for he thought it was no more yuse wod gust quit having any thing mor to doo with you .
cf18.64.2	post-adj2	Alf sed he heard that you and Hardy was a runing all the time together and he though he wod gust quit having any thing mor to doo with you for he thought it was no more yuse .
cf18.68.0	ref	A Federal infantryman wrote to his father shortly after his first skirmish in Virginia : `` dear Pa .
cf18.68.1	post-adj2	A Federal infantryman wrote shortly after his first skirmish in Virginia to his father : `` dear Pa .
cf18.69.0	ref	Went out a skouting yesterday .
cf18.69.1	post-adj2	Went yesterday a skouting out .
cf18.73.0	ref	Some of the choicest remarks made by soldiers in their letters were in disparagement of unpopular officers .
cf18.73.1	post-adj2	Some of the choicest remarks made in their letters by soldiers were in disparagement of unpopular officers .
cf18.85.0	ref	Private George Gray Hunter of Pennsylvania wrote : `` I am well convinced in my own mind that had it not been for officers this war would have ended long ago '' .
cf18.85.1	pre-adv	Private George Gray Hunter of Pennsylvania wrote : `` I am well convinced in my own mind that this war would have ended long ago had it not been for officers '' .
cf18.88.0	ref	One Federal soldier wrote : `` the docters is no aconte -- hell will be filde with do -LRB- c -RRB- ters and offersey when this war is over '' .
cf18.88.1	post-adv	One Federal soldier wrote : `` the docters is no aconte -- hell will when this war is over be filde with do -LRB- c -RRB- ters and offersey '' .
cf18.97.0	ref	In a similar vein , but writing from the opposite side , Thomas Taylor , a private in the 6th Alabama Volunteers , in a letter to his wife , stated : `` you know that my heart is with you but I never could have been satisfied to have staid at home when my country is invaded by a thievin foe , by a set of cowardly skunks whose motto is Booty .
cf18.97.1	post-adv	In a similar vein , but writing from the opposite side , Thomas Taylor , a private in the 6th Alabama Volunteers , in a letter to his wife , stated : `` you know that my heart is with you but I never could when my country is invaded by a thievin foe , by a set of cowardly skunks whose motto is Booty have been satisfied to have staid at home .
cf19.3.0	ref	Thus , if we are to observe American folklore in the twentieth century , we will do well to establish the relationships between folklore , nationalism and imperialism at the outset .
cf19.3.1	pre-adv	Thus we will do well to establish the relationships between folklore , nationalism and imperialism at the outset , if we are to observe American folklore in the twentieth century .
cf19.7.0	ref	2 -RRB- As a country superimposes its cultural and political attitudes on others , it searches its heritage in hopes of justifying its aggressiveness .
cf19.7.1	pre-adv	2 -RRB- it searches its heritage in hopes of justifying its aggressiveness , as a country superimposes its cultural and political attitudes on others .
cf19.11.0	ref	Nor is it an accident that baseball , growing into the national game in the last 75 years , has become a microcosm of American life , that learned societies such as the American Folklore Society and the American Historical Association were founded in the 1880s , or that courses in American literature , American civilization , American anything have swept our school and college curricula .
cf19.11.1	post-adj2	Nor is it an accident that baseball , growing in the last 75 years into the national game , has become a microcosm of American life , that learned societies such as the American Folklore Society and the American Historical Association were founded in the 1880s , or that courses in American literature , American civilization , American anything have swept our school and college curricula .
cf19.14.0	ref	It is an understandable paradox that most American history and most American literature is today written from an essentially egocentric and isolationistic point of view at the very time America is spreading her dominion over palm and pine .
cf19.14.1	post-adj2	It is an understandable paradox that most American history and most American literature is today written at the very time America is spreading her dominion over palm and pine from an essentially egocentric and isolationistic point of view .
cf19.15.0	ref	After all , the average American as he lies and waits for the enemy in Korea or as she scans the newspaper in some vain hope of personal contact with the front is unconcerned that his or her plight is the result of a complex of personal , economic and governmental actions far beyond the normal citizen 's comprehension and control .
cf19.15.1	pre-adv	After all , the average American is unconcerned that his or her plight is the result of a complex of personal , economic and governmental actions far beyond the normal citizen 's comprehension and control as he lies and waits for the enemy in Korea or as she scans the newspaper in some vain hope of personal contact with the front .
cf19.17.0	ref	Such identification comes for each group in each crisis by rewriting history into legend and developing appropriate national heroes .
cf19.17.1	post-adj3	Such identification comes in each crisis for each group by rewriting history into legend and developing appropriate national heroes .
cf19.17.2	post-adj3	Such identification comes by rewriting history into legend and developing appropriate national heroes in each crisis for each group .
cf19.17.3	post-adj3	Such identification comes for each group by rewriting history into legend and developing appropriate national heroes in each crisis .
cf19.17.4	post-adj3	Such identification comes by rewriting history into legend and developing appropriate national heroes for each group in each crisis .
cf19.17.5	post-adj3	Such identification comes in each crisis by rewriting history into legend and developing appropriate national heroes for each group .
cf19.25.0	ref	Therefore , the scholar , as he looks at our national folklore of the last 60 years , will be mindful of two facts .
cf19.25.1	pre-adv	Therefore , the scholar will be mindful of two facts , as he looks at our national folklore of the last 60 years .
cf19.30.0	ref	Related to written literature , and often remaining temporarily frozen in written form , it loses its vitality when transcribed or removed from its oral existence .
cf19.30.1	post-adv	When transcribed or removed from its oral existence related to written literature , and often remaining temporarily frozen in written form , it loses its vitality .
cf19.31.0	ref	Though it may exist in either literate or illiterate societies , it assumes a role of true cultural importance only in the latter .
cf19.31.1	pre-adv	It assumes a role of true cultural importance only in the latter , though it may exist in either literate or illiterate societies .
cf19.34.0	ref	Nor have we remembered that in the melting pot of America the hundreds of isolated and semi-isolated ethnic , regional and occupational groups did not fuse into a homogeneous national unit until long after education and industrialization had caused them to cast oral tradition aside as a means of carrying culturally significant material .
cf19.34.1	post-adj2	Nor have we remembered that in the melting pot of America the hundreds of isolated and semi-isolated ethnic , regional and occupational groups did not fuse until long after education and industrialization had caused them to cast oral tradition aside as a means of carrying culturally significant material into a homogeneous national unit .
cf19.36.0	ref	That much of what he calls folklore is the result of beliefs carefully sown among the people with the conscious aim of producing a desired mass emotional reaction to a particular situation or set of situations is irrelevant .
cf19.36.1	post-adj2	That much of what he calls folklore is the result of beliefs carefully sown with the conscious aim of producing a desired mass emotional reaction to a particular situation or set of situations among the people is irrelevant .
cf19.42.0	ref	After all , the field is large , difficult to define and seldom taught properly to American undergraduates .
cf19.42.1	post-adj2	After all , the field is large , difficult to define and seldom taught to American undergraduates properly .
cf19.54.0	ref	Fundamentally , both these types , the amateur and the collector , are uncritical and many of them do n't distinguish well between real folklore and bogus material .
cf19.54.1	post-adj2	Fundamentally , both these types , the amateur and the collector , are uncritical and many of them do n't distinguish between real folklore and bogus material well .
cf19.58.0	ref	The commercial propagandist , who ca n't afford to be critical , gets along well with the amateur , from whom he feeds , but he frequently steps on the analyst 's toes by refusing to keep his material genuine .
cf19.58.1	post-adj3	The commercial propagandist , who ca n't afford to be critical , gets well along with the amateur , from whom he feeds , but he frequently steps on the analyst 's toes by refusing to keep his material genuine .
cf19.58.2	post-adj3	The commercial propagandist , who ca n't afford to be critical , gets with the amateur , from whom he feeds well along , but he frequently steps on the analyst 's toes by refusing to keep his material genuine .
cf19.58.3	post-adj3	The commercial propagandist , who ca n't afford to be critical , gets along with the amateur , from whom he feeds well , but he frequently steps on the analyst 's toes by refusing to keep his material genuine .
cf19.58.4	post-adj3	The commercial propagandist , who ca n't afford to be critical , gets with the amateur , from whom he feeds along well , but he frequently steps on the analyst 's toes by refusing to keep his material genuine .
cf19.58.5	post-adj3	The commercial propagandist , who ca n't afford to be critical , gets well with the amateur , from whom he feeds along , but he frequently steps on the analyst 's toes by refusing to keep his material genuine .
cf19.61.0	ref	Dominated by the vicious circle of the university promotion system , the analyst looks down on and gets along poorly with the other three groups , although he can not deny his debt to the collector .
cf19.61.1	post-adv	Although he can not deny his debt to the collector , dominated by the vicious circle of the university promotion system , the analyst looks down on and gets along poorly with the other three groups .
cf19.68.0	ref	If one wishes to discuss a literary figure who uses folklore in his work , the first thing he must realize is that the literary figure is probably part of this ignorant American public .
cf19.68.1	pre-adv	The first thing he must realize is that the literary figure is probably part of this ignorant American public , if one wishes to discuss a literary figure who uses folklore in his work .
cf19.69.0	ref	And while every writer must be dealt with as a special case , the interested student will want to ask himself a number of questions about each .
cf19.69.1	pre-adv	And the interested student will want to ask himself a number of questions about each , while every writer must be dealt with as a special case .
cf19.69.2	post-adj2	And while every writer must be dealt as a special case with , the interested student will want to ask himself a number of questions about each .
cf19.73.0	ref	Is he swept away by sentiment and nostalgia for an America that was ?
cf19.73.1	post-adj2	Is he swept by sentiment and nostalgia for an America that was away ?
cf19.75.0	ref	When he gets the answers to his questions he will be discouraged .
cf19.75.1	pre-adv	He will be discouraged when he gets the answers to his questions .
cf19.76.0	ref	In the first place , a good many writers who are said to use folklore , do not , unless one counts an occasional superstition or tale .
cf19.76.1	post-adv	Unless one counts an occasional superstition or tale , in the first place , a good many writers who are said to use folklore , do not .
cf19.78.0	ref	This has not , however , prevented publishers from labeling him a `` folk poet '' , simply because he is a rural one .
cf19.78.1	post-adv	This has not , however , prevented publishers from , simply because he is a rural one , labeling him a `` folk poet '' .
cf19.80.0	ref	Stephen Vincent Benet 's John Brown 's Body comes immediately to mind in this connection , as does John Steinbeck 's The Grapes Of Wrath and Carl Sandburg 's The People , Yes .
cf19.80.1	post-adv	As does John Steinbeck 's The Grapes Of Wrath and Carl Sandburg 's The People , Yes , Stephen Vincent Benet 's John Brown 's Body comes immediately to mind in this connection .
cf19.80.2	post-adj3	Stephen Vincent Benet 's John Brown 's Body comes to mind immediately in this connection , as does John Steinbeck 's The Grapes Of Wrath and Carl Sandburg 's The People , Yes .
cf19.80.3	post-adj3	Stephen Vincent Benet 's John Brown 's Body comes in this connection to mind immediately , as does John Steinbeck 's The Grapes Of Wrath and Carl Sandburg 's The People , Yes .
cf19.80.4	post-adj3	Stephen Vincent Benet 's John Brown 's Body comes immediately in this connection to mind , as does John Steinbeck 's The Grapes Of Wrath and Carl Sandburg 's The People , Yes .
cf19.80.5	post-adj3	Stephen Vincent Benet 's John Brown 's Body comes , in this connection , immediately to mind as does John Steinbeck 's The Grapes Of Wrath and Carl Sandburg 's The People , Yes .
cf19.80.6	post-adj3	Stephen Vincent Benet 's John Brown 's Body comes to mind in this connection immediately , as does John Steinbeck 's The Grapes Of Wrath and Carl Sandburg 's The People , Yes .
cf19.82.0	ref	Folklore , as used by such writers , really reflects images engraved into it by the very person using it .
cf19.82.1	pre-adv	Folklore really reflects images engraved into it by the very person using it , as used by such writers .
cf19.83.0	ref	The folk are simply not homogeneous with respect to nation or political attitude .
cf19.83.1	post-adj2	The folk are with respect to nation or political attitude not homogeneous simply .
cf20.3.0	ref	O'Banion was a complex and frightening man , whose bright blue eyes stared with a kind of frozen candour into others ' .
cf20.3.1	post-adj2	O'Banion was a complex and frightening man , whose bright blue eyes stared into others ' with a kind of frozen candour .
cf20.4.0	ref	He had a round , frank Irish face , creased in a jovial grin that stayed bleakly in place even when he was pumping bullets into someone 's body .
cf20.4.1	post-adv	He had a round , frank Irish face , creased in a jovial grin that even when he was pumping bullets into someone 's body stayed bleakly in place .
cf20.11.0	ref	He had what was described by a psychologist as a `` sunny brutality '' .
cf20.11.1	post-adj2	He had what was described as a `` sunny brutality '' by a psychologist .
cf20.12.0	ref	He walked with a heavy list to the right , as that leg was four inches shorter than the other , but the lurch did not reduce his feline quickness with his guns .
cf20.12.1	post-adv	As that leg was four inches shorter than the other , he walked with a heavy list to the right , but the lurch did not reduce his feline quickness with his guns .
cf20.13.0	ref	Landesco thought him `` just a superior sort of plugugly '' but he was , in fact , with his aggression and hostility , and nerveless indifference to risking or administering pain , a casebook psychopath .
cf20.13.1	post-adj2	Landesco thought him `` just a superior sort of plugugly '' but he was , with his aggression and hostility , and nerveless indifference to risking or administering pain , in fact , a casebook psychopath .
cf20.14.0	ref	He was also at this time , although not so interwoven in high politics and the rackets as Torrio and Capone , the most powerful and most dangerous mob leader in the Chicago underworld , the roughneck king .
cf20.14.1	post-adv	Although not so interwoven in high politics and the rackets as Torrio and Capone , he was also at this time the most powerful and most dangerous mob leader in the Chicago underworld , the roughneck king .
cf20.14.2	post-adj2	He was at this time also , although not so interwoven in high politics and the rackets as Torrio and Capone , the most powerful and most dangerous mob leader in the Chicago underworld , the roughneck king .
cf20.15.0	ref	O'Banion was born in poverty , the son of an immigrant Irish plasterer , in the North Side 's Little Hell , close by the Sicilian quarter and Death Corner .
cf20.15.1	post-adj2	O'Banion was born in the North Side 's Little Hell , close by the Sicilian quarter and Death Corner , the son of an immigrant Irish plasterer , in poverty .
cf20.18.0	ref	At the age of ten , when he was working as a newsboy in the Loop , he was knocked down by a streetcar which resulted in his permanently shortened leg .
cf20.18.1	pre-adv	At the age of ten he was knocked down by a streetcar which resulted in his permanently shortened leg , when he was working as a newsboy in the Loop .
cf20.18.2	post-adj2	At the age of ten , when he was working in the Loop as a newsboy , he was knocked down by a streetcar which resulted in his permanently shortened leg .
cf20.21.0	ref	He then got a job with the Chicago Herald-Examiner as a circulation slugger , a rough fighter employed to see that his paper 's news pitches were not trespassed upon by rival vendors .
cf20.21.1	post-adj2	He then got a job with the Chicago Herald-Examiner as a circulation slugger , a rough fighter employed to see that his paper 's news pitches were not trespassed by rival vendors upon .
cf20.22.0	ref	He was also at the same time gaining practical experience as a safe breaker and highwayman , and learning how to shoot to kill from a Neanderthal convicted murderer named Gene Geary , later committed to Chester Asylum as a homicidal maniac , but whose eyes misted with tears when the young Dion sang a ballad about an Irish mother in his clear and syrupy tenor .
cf20.22.1	post-adv	He was also at the same time gaining practical experience as a safe breaker and highwayman , and learning how to shoot to kill from a Neanderthal convicted murderer named Gene Geary , later committed to Chester Asylum as a homicidal maniac , but whose eyes when the young Dion sang a ballad about an Irish mother in his clear and syrupy tenor misted with tears .
cf20.22.2	post-adj2	He was at the same time also gaining practical experience as a safe breaker and highwayman , and learning how to shoot to kill from a Neanderthal convicted murderer named Gene Geary , later committed to Chester Asylum as a homicidal maniac , but whose eyes misted with tears when the young Dion sang a ballad about an Irish mother in his clear and syrupy tenor .
cf20.23.0	ref	O'Banion 's first conflict with the police came in 1909 , at seventeen , when he was committed to Bridewell Prison for three months for burglary ; two years later he served another three months for assault .
cf20.23.1	post-adv	When he was committed to Bridewell Prison for three months for burglary , O'Banion 's first conflict with the police came in 1909 , at seventeen ; two years later he served another three months for assault .
cf20.23.2	post-adj2	O'Banion 's first conflict with the police came at seventeen , in 1909 , when he was committed to Bridewell Prison for three months for burglary ; two years later he served another three months for assault .
cf20.24.0	ref	Those were his only interludes behind bars , although he collected four more charges on his police record in 1921 and 1922 , three for burglary and one for robbery .
cf20.24.1	post-adv	Although he collected four more charges on his police record in 1921 and 1922 , three for burglary and one for robbery , those were his only interludes behind bars .
cf20.34.0	ref	There was a question-and-answer gag that went around at that time : Q . `` Who 'll carry the Forty-second and Forty-third wards '' ?
cf20.34.1	post-adj2	There was a question-and-answer gag that went at that time around : Q . `` Who 'll carry the Forty-second and Forty-third wards '' ?
cf20.36.0	ref	But as November 1924 drew close the Democratic hierarchy was sorely troubled by grapevine reports that O'Banion was being wooed by the opposition , and was meeting and conferring with important Republicans .
cf20.36.1	pre-adv	But the Democratic hierarchy was sorely troubled by grapevine reports that O'Banion was being wooed by the opposition , and was meeting and conferring with important Republicans as November 1924 drew close .
cf20.42.0	ref	When Mayor Dever heard of the banquet he summoned Hughes for an explanation of why he had been dishonouring the police department by consorting with these felons and fixers .
cf20.42.1	pre-adv	He summoned Hughes for an explanation of why he had been dishonouring the police department by consorting with these felons and fixers when Mayor Dever heard of the banquet .
cf20.44.0	ref	`` But when I arrived and recognised a number of notorious characters I had thrown into the detective bureau basement half a dozen times , I knew I had been framed , and withdrew almost at once '' .
cf20.44.1	pre-adv	`` But I knew I had been framed , and withdrew almost at once , when I arrived and recognised a number of notorious characters I had thrown into the detective bureau basement half a dozen times '' .
cf20.44.2	post-adj2	`` But when I arrived and recognised a number of notorious characters I had thrown half a dozen times into the detective bureau basement , I knew I had been framed , and withdrew almost at once '' .
cf20.45.0	ref	In fact , O'Connor was honoured during the ceremony with the presentation of a $ 2500 diamond stickpin .
cf20.45.1	post-adj2	In fact , O'Connor was honoured with the presentation of a $ 2500 diamond stickpin during the ceremony .
cf20.46.0	ref	There was a brief interruption while one of O'Banion 's men jerked out both his guns and threatened to shoot a waiter who was pestering him for a tip .
cf20.46.1	post-adv	While one of O'Banion 's men jerked out both his guns and threatened to shoot a waiter who was pestering him for a tip there was a brief interruption .
cf20.50.0	ref	However , this inaugural feast did its sponsors no good whatever .
cf20.50.1	dat-np-np	However , this inaugural feast did no good whatever to its sponsors .
cf20.56.0	ref	He behaved publicly with a cocky , swaggering truculence that offended their vulpine Latin minds , and behaved towards them personally with an unimpressed insolence that enraged them beneath their blandness .
cf20.56.1	post-adj2	He behaved with a cocky , swaggering truculence that offended their vulpine Latin minds publicly , and behaved towards them personally with an unimpressed insolence that enraged them beneath their blandness .
cf20.59.0	ref	At the end of the performance , Dave and Max came out into the brilliantly lit foyer among a surge of gowned and tuxedoed first nighters .
cf20.59.1	post-adj2	At the end of the performance , Dave and Max came among a surge of gowned and tuxedoed first nighters out into the brilliantly lit foyer .
cf20.69.0	ref	Upon which the detective bureau despatched rifle squads to prevent trouble if O'Banion should send his gunmen out to deal with the hijacking policemen .
cf20.69.1	post-adv	Upon which the detective bureau despatched rifle squads if O'Banion should send his gunmen out to deal with the hijacking policemen to prevent trouble .
cf20.70.0	ref	But in the meantime the beer-runner , unhappy with this solution , telephoned Torrio and returned to O'Banion with the message : `` Say , Dionie , I just been talking to Johnny , and he said to let them cops have the three hundred .
cf20.70.1	post-adj2	But in the meantime the beer-runner , unhappy with this solution , telephoned Torrio and returned with the message : `` Say , Dionie , I just been talking to Johnny , and he said to let them cops have the three hundred to O'Banion .
cf20.73.0	ref	For three years , since the liquor territorial conference , Torrio had , with his elastic patience , and because he knew that retaliation could cause only violent warfare and disaster to business , tolerated O'Banion 's impudent double-crossing .
cf20.73.1	pre-adj2	Since the liquor territorial conference , for three years , Torrio had , with his elastic patience , and because he knew that retaliation could cause only violent warfare and disaster to business , tolerated O'Banion 's impudent double-crossing .
cf20.73.2	post-adv	Because he knew that retaliation could cause only violent warfare and disaster to business for three years , since the liquor territorial conference , Torrio had , with his elastic patience , and , tolerated O'Banion 's impudent double-crossing .
cf20.75.0	ref	When , as a diplomatic gesture of amity and in payment for the loan of gunmen in the April election , Torrio had given O'Banion a slice of Cicero , the profits from that district had been $ 20,000 a month .
cf20.75.1	dat-np-np	When , as a diplomatic gesture of amity and in payment for the loan of gunmen in the April election , Torrio had given a slice of Cicero to O'Banion , the profits from that district had been $ 20,000 a month .
cf20.75.2	pre-adv	The profits from that district had been $ 20,000 a month , when , as a diplomatic gesture of amity and in payment for the loan of gunmen in the April election , Torrio had given O'Banion a slice of Cicero .
cf20.76.0	ref	In six months O'Banion had boosted the profits to $ 100,000 a month -- mainly by bringing pressure to bear on fifty Chicago speak-easy proprietors to shift out to the suburb .
cf20.76.1	post-adj2	In six months O'Banion had boosted the profits mainly by bringing pressure to bear on fifty Chicago speak-easy proprietors to shift out to the suburb -- to $ 100,000 a month .
cf20.78.0	ref	The revenue from O'Banion 's Cicero territory went up still higher , until the yield was more than the Torrio-Capone takings from the far bigger trade area of Chicago 's South and West Sides .
cf20.78.1	post-adv	Until the yield was more than the Torrio-Capone takings from the far bigger trade area of Chicago 's South and West Sides , the revenue from O'Banion 's Cicero territory went up still higher .
cf20.84.0	ref	These 1750 cases were carted off in a one-night operation by the O'Banion men , who left in their stead the same number of barrels filled with water .
cf20.84.1	post-adj2	These 1750 cases were carted in a one-night operation by the O'Banion men , who left in their stead the same number of barrels filled with water off .
cf21.4.0	ref	Whether or not Plato 's tale of the lost continent of Atlantis is true , skeptics concede that the myth may have some foundation in a great tsunami of ancient times .
cf21.4.1	pre-adv	Skeptics concede that the myth may have some foundation in a great tsunami of ancient times , whether or not Plato 's tale of the lost continent of Atlantis is true .
cf21.5.0	ref	Indeed , a tremendously destructive tsunami that arose in the Arabian Sea in 1945 has even revived the interest of geologists and archaeologists in the Biblical story of the Flood .
cf21.5.1	post-adj2	Indeed , a tremendously destructive tsunami that arose in 1945 in the Arabian Sea has even revived the interest of geologists and archaeologists in the Biblical story of the Flood .
cf21.7.0	ref	Tsunami are rare , however , in the Atlantic Ocean ; they are far more common in the Pacific .
cf21.7.1	post-adj2	Tsunami are rare , in the Atlantic Ocean , however ; they are far more common in the Pacific .
cf21.9.0	ref	The Hawaiian Islands are struck severely an average of once every 25 years .
cf21.9.1	post-adj2	The Hawaiian Islands are struck an average of once every 25 years severely .
cf21.14.0	ref	An ordinary sea wave is rarely more than a few hundred feet long from crest to crest -- no longer than 320 feet in the Atlantic or 1,000 feet in the Pacific .
cf21.14.1	post-adj2	An ordinary sea wave is from crest to crest more than a few hundred feet long rarely -- no longer than 320 feet in the Atlantic or 1,000 feet in the Pacific .
cf21.16.0	ref	While a wind wave never travels at more than 60 miles per hour , the velocity of a tsunami in the open sea must be reckoned in hundreds of miles per hour .
cf21.16.1	pre-adv	The velocity of a tsunami in the open sea must be reckoned in hundreds of miles per hour , while a wind wave never travels at more than 60 miles per hour .
cf21.23.0	ref	Not until they sailed home at the end of the day , through a sea strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses , were they aware of what had happened .
cf21.23.1	post-adj3	Not until they sailed at the end of the day home , through a sea strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses , were they aware of what had happened .
cf21.23.2	post-adj3	Not until they sailed through a sea strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses at the end of the day , home , were they aware of what had happened .
cf21.23.3	post-adj3	Not until they sailed home through a sea strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses , at the end of the day , were they aware of what had happened .
cf21.23.4	post-adj3	Not until they sailed , through a sea strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses , home at the end of the day , were they aware of what had happened .
cf21.23.5	post-adj3	Not until they sailed at the end of the day , through a sea strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses home , were they aware of what had happened .
cf21.25.0	ref	The giant waves are more dangerous on flat shores than on steep ones .
cf21.25.1	post-adj2	The giant waves are more dangerous than on steep ones on flat shores .
cf21.26.0	ref	They usually range from 20 to 60 feet in height , but when they pour into a V-shaped inlet or harbor they may rise to mountainous proportions .
cf21.26.1	pre-adv	They usually range from 20 to 60 feet in height , but they may rise to mountainous proportions when they pour into a V-shaped inlet or harbor .
cf21.26.2	post-adj2	They usually range in height from 20 to 60 feet , but when they pour into a V-shaped inlet or harbor they may rise to mountainous proportions .
cf21.28.0	ref	This is followed by a tremendous suck of water away from the shore as the first great trough arrives .
cf21.28.1	post-adv	This as the first great trough arrives is followed by a tremendous suck of water away from the shore .
cf21.31.0	ref	Many of them paid for their curiosity with their lives , for some minutes later the first giant wave roared over the shore .
cf21.31.1	post-adv	For some minutes later the first giant wave roared over the shore , many of them paid for their curiosity with their lives .
cf21.31.2	post-adj2	Many of them paid with their lives for their curiosity , for some minutes later the first giant wave roared over the shore .
cf21.33.0	ref	When a second quake came , they dashed back to the beach , fearing that they might be buried under landslides .
cf21.33.1	pre-adv	They dashed back to the beach , fearing that they might be buried under landslides , when a second quake came .
cf21.33.2	post-adj2	When a second quake came , they dashed to the beach back , fearing that they might be buried under landslides .
cf21.34.0	ref	Just as they reached the shore , the first huge wave crashed upon them .
cf21.34.1	pre-adv	The first huge wave crashed upon them , just as they reached the shore .
cf21.36.0	ref	The waves are separated by intervals of 15 minutes to an hour or more -LRB- because of their great length -RRB- , and this has often lulled people into thinking after the first great wave has crashed that it is all over .
cf21.36.1	post-adv	The waves are separated by intervals of 15 minutes to an hour or more -LRB- because of their great length -RRB- , and this has often lulled people into after the first great wave has crashed thinking that it is all over .
cf21.43.0	ref	On some of the islands ' beaches the waves came in gently ; they were steepest on the shores facing the direction of the seaquake from which the waves had come .
cf21.43.1	post-adj2	On some of the islands ' beaches the waves came gently in ; they were steepest on the shores facing the direction of the seaquake from which the waves had come .
cf21.47.0	ref	During a 1933 tsunami in Japan the sea glowed brilliantly at night .
cf21.47.1	post-adj2	During a 1933 tsunami in Japan the sea glowed at night brilliantly .
cf21.51.0	ref	Gratified fishermen hauled them in by the thousands .
cf21.51.1	post-adj2	Gratified fishermen hauled them by the thousands in .
cf21.55.0	ref	But when waves with a period of between 10 and 40 minutes begin to roll over the ocean , they set in motion a corresponding oscillation in a column of mercury which closes an electric circuit .
cf21.55.1	pre-adv	But they set in motion a corresponding oscillation in a column of mercury which closes an electric circuit , when waves with a period of between 10 and 40 minutes begin to roll over the ocean .
cf21.61.0	ref	By means of charts showing wave-travel times and depths in the ocean at various locations , it is possible to estimate the rate of approach and probable time of arrival at Hawaii of a tsunami getting under way at any spot in the Pacific .
cf21.61.1	post-adj2	By means of charts showing wave-travel times and depths in the ocean at various locations , it is possible to estimate the rate of approach and probable time of arrival at Hawaii of a tsunami getting at any spot in the Pacific under way .
cf21.65.0	ref	On November 4 , 1952 , an earthquake occurred under the sea off the Kamchatka Peninsula .
cf21.65.1	post-adj2	On November 4 , 1952 , an earthquake occurred off the Kamchatka Peninsula under the sea .
cf21.68.0	ref	Within about an hour with the help of reports from seismic stations in Alaska , Arizona and California , the quake 's epicenter was placed at 51 degrees North latitude and 158 degrees East longitude .
cf21.68.1	pre-adj2	With the help of reports from seismic stations in Alaska , Arizona and California within about an hour , the quake 's epicenter was placed at 51 degrees North latitude and 158 degrees East longitude .
cf21.69.0	ref	While accounts of the progress of the tsunami came in from various points in the Pacific -LRB- Midway reported it was covered with nine feet of water -RRB- , the Hawaiian station made its calculations and notified the military services and the police that the first big wave would arrive at Honolulu at 23:30 Greenwich time .
cf21.69.1	pre-adv	The Hawaiian station made its calculations and notified the military services and the police that the first big wave would arrive at Honolulu at 23:30 Greenwich time , while accounts of the progress of the tsunami came in from various points in the Pacific -LRB- Midway reported it was covered with nine feet of water -RRB- .
cf21.69.2	post-adj2	While accounts of the progress of the tsunami came from various points in the Pacific in -LRB- Midway reported it was covered with nine feet of water -RRB- , the Hawaiian station made its calculations and notified the military services and the police that the first big wave would arrive at Honolulu at 23:30 Greenwich time .
cf21.71.0	ref	They hurled a cement barge against a freighter in Honolulu Harbor , knocked down telephone lines , marooned automobiles , flooded lawns , killed six cows .
cf21.71.1	post-adj2	They hurled a cement barge in Honolulu Harbor against a freighter , knocked down telephone lines , marooned automobiles , flooded lawns , killed six cows .
cf21.77.0	ref	Life has evolved from simple combinations of molecules in the sea to complex combinations in man .
cf21.77.1	post-adj2	Life has evolved to complex combinations in man from simple combinations of molecules in the sea .
cf21.79.0	ref	Earthquakes result when movements in the earth twist rocks until they break .
cf21.79.1	post-adv	When movements in the earth twist rocks until they break earthquakes result .
cf21.79.2	post-adv	Earthquakes result when until they break movements in the earth twist rocks .
cf21.85.0	ref	We have learned from earthquakes much of what we now know about the earth 's interior , for they send waves through the earth which emerge with information about the materials through which they have traveled .
cf21.85.1	post-adv	We , for they send waves through the earth which emerge with information about the materials through which they have traveled , have learned from earthquakes much of what we now know about the earth 's interior .
cf21.89.0	ref	-LRB- 1 -RRB- As far down as 400 miles below the surface the material should be hot enough to be plastic and adjust itself to twisting forces by sluggish flow rather than by breaking , as rigid surface rocks do .
cf21.89.1	post-adv	-LRB- 1 -RRB- As far down as 400 miles below the surface the material should be hot enough to be plastic and adjust itself to twisting forces by sluggish flow rather than by , as rigid surface rocks do , breaking .
cf21.89.2	post-adj2	-LRB- 1 -RRB- As far down as 400 miles below the surface the material should be hot enough to be plastic and adjust itself by sluggish flow rather than by breaking , as rigid surface rocks do to twisting forces .
cf21.92.0	ref	In the search for oil and gas , we make similar waves under controlled conditions with dynamite and learn from them where there are buried rock structures favorable to the accumulation of these resources .
cf21.92.1	post-adj2	In the search for oil and gas , we make similar waves with dynamite under controlled conditions and learn from them where there are buried rock structures favorable to the accumulation of these resources .
cf21.96.0	ref	At twelve minutes after five on the morning of Wednesday , April 18 , 1906 , San Francisco was shaken by a severe earthquake .
cf21.96.1	pre-adj2	On the morning of Wednesday , April 18 , 1906 at twelve minutes after five , San Francisco was shaken by a severe earthquake .
cf22.1.0	ref	In Ireland 's County Limerick , near the River Shannon , there is a quiet little suburb by the name of Garryowen , which means `` Garden of Owen '' .
cf22.1.1	pre-adj2	Near the River Shannon , in Ireland 's County Limerick , there is a quiet little suburb by the name of Garryowen , which means `` Garden of Owen '' .
cf22.5.0	ref	Today a battle cry may seem an anachronism , for in the modern Army , esprit de corps has been sacrificed to organizational charts and tables .
cf22.5.1	post-adv	Today a battle cry , for in the modern Army , esprit de corps has been sacrificed to organizational charts and tables , may seem an anachronism .
cf22.6.0	ref	But do n't tell that to a veteran of the Fighting Seventh , especially in a saloon on Saturday night .
cf22.6.1	dat-np-pp	But do n't tell a veteran of the Fighting Seventh that , especially in a saloon on Saturday night .
cf22.7.0	ref	Of all the thousands of men who have served in the 7th Cav , perhaps no one knows its spirit better than Lieutenant Colonel Melbourne C. Chandler .
cf22.7.1	pre-adj2	Perhaps , of all the thousands of men who have served in the 7th Cav no one knows its spirit better than Lieutenant Colonel Melbourne C. Chandler .
cf22.9.0	ref	The truth is , however , that when Mel Chandler first reported to the regiment the only steed he had ever ridden was a swivel chair and the only weapon he had ever wielded was a pencil .
cf22.9.1	pre-adv	The truth is , however , that the only steed he had ever ridden when Mel Chandler first reported to the regiment was a swivel chair and the only weapon he had ever wielded was a pencil .
cf22.10.0	ref	Chandler had been commissioned in the Medical Service Corps and was serving as a personnel officer for the Kansas City Medical Depot when he decided that if he was going to make the Army his career , he wanted to be in the fighting part of it .
cf22.10.1	post-adv	Chandler had been commissioned in the Medical Service Corps and when he decided that if he was going to make the Army his career , he wanted to be in the fighting part of it was serving as a personnel officer for the Kansas City Medical Depot .
cf22.10.2	pre-adv	Chandler had been commissioned in the Medical Service Corps and was serving as a personnel officer for the Kansas City Medical Depot when he decided that he wanted to be in the fighting part of it , if he was going to make the Army his career .
cf22.11.0	ref	Though he knew no more about military science and tactics than any other desk officer , he managed to get transferred to the combat forces .
cf22.11.1	pre-adv	He managed to get transferred to the combat forces , though he knew no more about military science and tactics than any other desk officer .
cf22.12.0	ref	The next thing he knew he was reporting for duty as commanding officer of Troop H , 7th Cavalry , in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan .
cf22.12.1	post-adj3	The next thing he knew he was reporting as commanding officer of Troop H , 7th Cavalry for duty , in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan .
cf22.12.2	post-adj3	The next thing he knew he was reporting in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan as commanding officer of Troop H , 7th Cavalry , for duty .
cf22.12.3	post-adj3	The next thing he knew he was reporting for duty in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan , as commanding officer of Troop H , 7th Cavalry .
cf22.12.4	post-adj3	The next thing he knew he was reporting , in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan , for duty as commanding officer of Troop H , 7th Cavalry .
cf22.12.5	post-adj3	The next thing he knew he was reporting as commanding officer of Troop H , 7th Cavalry , in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan for duty .
cf22.14.0	ref	First of all , no unit likes to have a new CO brought in from the outside , especially when he 's an armchair trooper .
cf22.14.1	post-adv	Especially when he 's an armchair trooper , first of all , no unit likes to have a new CO brought in from the outside .
cf22.14.2	post-adj2	First of all , no unit likes to have a new CO brought from the outside in , especially when he 's an armchair trooper .
cf22.15.0	ref	Second , if there is ever a perfect time to pull the rug out from under him , it 's on maneuvers .
cf22.15.1	pre-adv	Second it 's on maneuvers , if there is ever a perfect time to pull the rug out from under him .
cf22.17.0	ref	But in maneuvers , with the top brass watching him all the time , it 's easy .
cf22.17.1	pre-adj2	But with the top brass watching him all the time , in maneuvers , it 's easy .
cf22.22.0	ref	He had enlisted in the Army straight out of high school and had immediately set about learning his new trade .
cf22.22.1	post-adj2	He had enlisted straight out of high school in the Army and had immediately set about learning his new trade .
cf22.31.0	ref	He fed the captain bits of history about the troops and the regiment .
cf22.31.1	dat-np-np	He fed bits of history about the troops and the regiment to the captain .
cf22.42.0	ref	And when the singing began , it was the Gouldings who sang the old Irish songs the best .
cf22.42.1	pre-adv	And it was the Gouldings who sang the old Irish songs the best , when the singing began .
cf22.43.0	ref	Though there was an occasional good-natured chuckle about Marvin Goulding , the Jewish officer from Chicago , singing tearfully about the ould sod , no one really thought it was strange .
cf22.43.1	pre-adv	No one really thought it was strange , though there was an occasional good-natured chuckle about Marvin Goulding , the Jewish officer from Chicago , singing tearfully about the ould sod .
cf22.43.2	post-adj2	Though there was an occasional good-natured chuckle about Marvin Goulding , the Jewish officer from Chicago , singing about the ould sod tearfully , no one really thought it was strange .
cf22.52.0	ref	So Mel Chandler set out to sell him on the spirit of Garryowen , just as he himself had been sold a short time before .
cf22.52.1	post-adv	So Mel Chandler set out , just as he himself had been sold a short time before , to sell him on the spirit of Garryowen .
cf22.53.0	ref	When the Korean war began , on June 25 , 1950 , the anniversary of the day Custer had gone down fighting at the Little Big Horn and the day the regiment had assaulted the beachhead of Leyte during World War 2 , the 7th Cavalry was not in the best fighting condition .
cf22.53.1	pre-adv	The 7th Cavalry was not in the best fighting condition , when the Korean war began , on June 25 , 1950 , the anniversary of the day Custer had gone down fighting at the Little Big Horn and the day the regiment had assaulted the beachhead of Leyte during World War 2 .
cf22.55.0	ref	Just a month after the Korean War broke out , the 7th Cavalry was moving into the lines , ready for combat .
cf22.55.1	pre-adv	The 7th Cavalry was moving into the lines , ready for combat , just a month after the Korean War broke out .
cf22.57.0	ref	One night on the Naktong River , Mel Chandler called on that fabled esprit de corps .
cf22.57.1	pre-adj2	On the Naktong River one night , Mel Chandler called on that fabled esprit de corps .
cf22.60.0	ref	At 6 o'clock on the morning of August 12 , they were in doubt no longer .
cf22.60.1	pre-adj2	On the morning of August 12 at 6 o'clock , they were in doubt no longer .
cf22.62.0	ref	The enemy had filtered across the river during the night and a full force of 1000 men , armed with Russian machine guns , attacked the position held by Chandler 's men .
cf22.62.1	post-adj2	The enemy had filtered during the night across the river and a full force of 1000 men , armed with Russian machine guns , attacked the position held by Chandler 's men .
cf22.64.0	ref	First came the cannon fodder , white-clad civilians being driven into death as a massive human battering ram .
cf22.64.1	post-adj2	First came the cannon fodder , white-clad civilians being driven as a massive human battering ram into death .
cf22.66.0	ref	They overran the 7th Cav 's forward machine-gun positions through sheer weight of numbers , over piles of their own dead .
cf22.66.1	post-adj2	They overran the 7th Cav 's forward machine-gun positions over piles of their own dead , through sheer weight of numbers .
cf22.77.0	ref	Chandler , looking to right and left to see how his men were faring , suddenly saw another figure bounding up the hill , hurling grenades and hollering the battle cry as he ran .
cf22.77.1	post-adv	Chandler , looking to right and left to see how his men were faring , suddenly saw another figure as he ran bounding up the hill , hurling grenades and hollering the battle cry .
cf22.79.0	ref	He had formed his own task force of three stragglers and led them up the hill in a Fighting Seventh charge .
cf22.79.1	post-adj2	He had formed his own task force of three stragglers and led them in a Fighting Seventh charge up the hill .
cf22.90.0	ref	But the bullets whacked home before he finished his battle cry and Marvin Goulding fell dead .
cf22.90.1	post-adv	But before he finished his battle cry the bullets whacked home and Marvin Goulding fell dead .
cf22.92.0	ref	Then they let out a bellow of anguish and rage and , cursing , screaming and hollering `` Garryowen '' ! They charged into the enemy like wild men .
cf22.92.1	post-adj2	Then they let out a bellow of anguish and rage and , cursing , screaming and hollering `` Garryowen '' ! They charged like wild men into the enemy .
cf22.95.0	ref	Reinforcements came up quickly to take advantage of the opening made by Goulding 's platoon .
cf22.95.1	post-adj2	Reinforcements came quickly up to take advantage of the opening made by Goulding 's platoon .
cf22.98.0	ref	Though Bob Carroll seemed to have had his head practically blown off by the exploding grenade , he lived .
cf22.98.1	pre-adv	He lived , though Bob Carroll seemed to have had his head practically blown off by the exploding grenade .
cf22.100.0	ref	So filled was Mel Chandler with the spirit of Garryowen that after Korea was over , he took on the job of writing the complete history of the regiment .
cf22.100.1	pre-adv	So filled was Mel Chandler with the spirit of Garryowen that he took on the job of writing the complete history of the regiment , after Korea was over .
cf22.107.0	ref	But when a board of inquiry was called to look into the charges of cowardice made against him , the men who had seen Reno leave the battlefield and the officer who had heard Reno suggest that the wounded be left to be tortured by the Sioux , refused to say a harsh word against him .
cf22.107.1	pre-adv	But the men who had seen Reno leave the battlefield and the officer who had heard Reno suggest that the wounded be left to be tortured by the Sioux , refused to say a harsh word against him , when a board of inquiry was called to look into the charges of cowardice made against him .
cf22.109.0	ref	Although it was at the Battle of The Little Horn , about which more words have been written than any other battle in American history , that the 7th Cavalry first made its mark in history , the regiment was ten years old by then .
cf22.109.1	pre-adv	The regiment was ten years old by then , although it was at the Battle of The Little Horn , about which more words have been written than any other battle in American history , that the 7th Cavalry first made its mark in history .
cf23.2.0	ref	If they were , Walter Lippmann would be writing the same columns as George Sokolsky , and Herb Lock would have nothing to draw cartoons about .
cf23.2.1	pre-adv	Walter Lippmann would be writing the same columns as George Sokolsky , if they were , and Herb Lock would have nothing to draw cartoons about .
cf23.6.0	ref	I speak of `` the largest possible measure '' because any person who supposes that these conditions can be universally and perfectly achieved -- ever -- reckons without the inherent imperfectability of himself and his fellow human beings , and is therefore a dangerous man to have around .
cf23.6.1	post-adv	Because any person who supposes that these conditions can be universally and perfectly achieved -- ever -- reckons without the inherent imperfectability of himself and his fellow human beings , and is therefore a dangerous man to have around I speak of `` the largest possible measure '' .
cf23.10.0	ref	Moreover , as Communist power increases , the enjoyment of these conditions throughout the world diminishes pro rata and the possibility of their restoration becomes increasingly remote .
cf23.10.1	pre-adv	Moreover the enjoyment of these conditions throughout the world diminishes pro rata , as Communist power increases , and the possibility of their restoration becomes increasingly remote .
cf23.15.0	ref	Peace is a worthy objective ; but if we must choose between peace and keeping the Communists out of Berlin , then we must fight .
cf23.15.1	pre-adv	Peace is a worthy objective ; but then we must fight , if we must choose between peace and keeping the Communists out of Berlin .
cf23.16.0	ref	Freedom , in the sense of self-determination , is a worthy objective ; but if granting self-determination to the Algerian rebels entails sweeping that area into the Sino-Soviet orbit , then Algerian freedom must be postponed .
cf23.16.1	pre-adv	Freedom , in the sense of self-determination , is a worthy objective ; but then Algerian freedom must be postponed , if granting self-determination to the Algerian rebels entails sweeping that area into the Sino-Soviet orbit .
cf23.16.2	dat-np-pp	Freedom , in the sense of self-determination , is a worthy objective ; but if granting the Algerian rebels self-determination entails sweeping that area into the Sino-Soviet orbit , then Algerian freedom must be postponed .
cf23.17.0	ref	Justice is a worthy objective ; but if justice for Bantus entails driving the government of the Union of South Africa away from the West , then the Bantus must be prepared to carry their identification cards yet a while longer .
cf23.17.1	pre-adv	Justice is a worthy objective ; but then the Bantus must be prepared to carry their identification cards yet a while longer , if justice for Bantus entails driving the government of the Union of South Africa away from the West .
cf23.18.0	ref	Prosperity is a worthy objective ; but if providing higher standards of living gets in the way of producing sufficient guns to resist Communist aggression , then material sacrifices and denials will have to be made .
cf23.18.1	pre-adv	Prosperity is a worthy objective ; but then material sacrifices and denials will have to be made , if providing higher standards of living gets in the way of producing sufficient guns to resist Communist aggression .
cf23.22.0	ref	This brings us squarely to the problem of power , and the uses a nation makes of power .
cf23.22.1	post-adj2	This brings us to the problem of power , and the uses a nation makes of power squarely .
cf23.28.0	ref	I know I do not have to dwell here on the absurdity of that contention .
cf23.28.1	post-adj2	I know I do not have to dwell on the absurdity of that contention here .
cf23.36.0	ref	If we look at the situation this way , we can get an idea of Khrushchev 's nightmarish worries -- or , at least , of the worries he might have if his enemies were disposed to exploit their advantage .
cf23.36.1	post-adv	If we look at the situation this way , we can get an idea of Khrushchev 's nightmarish worries -- or , at least , of the worries he if his enemies were disposed to exploit their advantage might have .
cf23.36.2	pre-adv	We can get an idea of Khrushchev 's nightmarish worries -- or , at least , of the worries he might have if his enemies were disposed to exploit their advantage , if we look at the situation this way .
cf23.39.0	ref	The contention needs to be formulated with much greater precision than it ever was during the campaign , but once that has been done , I fail to see how any serious student of world affairs can quarrel with it .
cf23.39.1	pre-adv	The contention needs to be formulated with much greater precision than it ever was during the campaign , but I fail to see how any serious student of world affairs can quarrel with it , once that has been done .
cf23.42.0	ref	Prestige is a measure of how other people think of you , well or ill .
cf23.42.1	post-adj2	Prestige is a measure of how other people think well or ill , of you .
cf23.44.0	ref	Only the vain and incurably sentimental among us will lose sleep simply because foreign peoples are not as impressed by our strength as they ought to be .
cf23.44.1	post-adv	Only the vain and incurably sentimental among us simply because foreign peoples are not as impressed by our strength as they ought to be will lose sleep .
cf23.46.0	ref	The evidence suggests that foreign peoples believe the United States is weaker than the Soviet Union , and is bound to fall still further behind in the years ahead .
cf23.46.1	post-adj2	The evidence suggests that foreign peoples believe the United States is weaker than the Soviet Union , and is bound to fall in the years ahead still further behind .
cf23.47.0	ref	This ignorant estimate , I repeat , is not of any interest in itself ; but it becomes very important if foreign peoples react the way human beings typically do -- namely , by taking steps to end up on what appears to be the winning side .
cf23.47.1	post-adv	This ignorant estimate , I repeat , is not of any interest in itself ; but if foreign peoples react the way human beings typically do -- namely , by taking steps to end up on what appears to be the winning side it becomes very important .
cf23.48.0	ref	To the extent , then , that declining U.S. prestige means that other nations will be tempted to place their bets on an ultimate American defeat , and will thus be more vulnerable to Soviet intimidation , there is reason for concern .
cf23.48.1	pre-adj2	Then , to the extent , that declining U.S. prestige means that other nations will be tempted to place their bets on an ultimate American defeat , and will thus be more vulnerable to Soviet intimidation , there is reason for concern .
cf23.53.0	ref	In answering these questions , we need to ask not merely whether Communist troops have crossed over into territories they did not occupy before , and not merely whether disciplined agents of the Cominform are in control of governments from which they were formerly excluded : the success of Communism 's war against the West does not depend on such spectacular and definitive conquests .
cf23.53.1	post-adj2	In answering these questions , we need to ask not merely whether Communist troops have crossed into territories they did not occupy before over , and not merely whether disciplined agents of the Cominform are in control of governments from which they were formerly excluded : the success of Communism 's war against the West does not depend on such spectacular and definitive conquests .
cf23.58.0	ref	Thus , typically , the first stage of a Communist takeover is to `` neutralize '' a country .
cf23.58.1	pre-adj2	Typically , thus , the first stage of a Communist takeover is to `` neutralize '' a country .
cf23.59.0	ref	The second stage is to retain the nominal classification of `` neutralist '' , while in fact turning the country into an active advocate and adherent of Soviet policy .
cf23.59.1	post-adv	The second stage is , while in fact turning the country into an active advocate and adherent of Soviet policy , to retain the nominal classification of `` neutralist '' .
cf23.61.0	ref	The Kremlin 's goal is the isolation and capture , not of Ghana , but of the United States -- and this purpose may be served very well by countries that masquerade under a `` neutralist '' mask , yet in fact are dependable auxiliaries of the Soviet Foreign Office .
cf23.61.1	post-adj2	The Kremlin 's goal is the isolation and capture , not of Ghana , but of the United States -- and this purpose may be served by countries that masquerade under a `` neutralist '' mask , yet in fact are dependable auxiliaries of the Soviet Foreign Office very well .
cf23.63.0	ref	Six years ago French Indochina , though in troubie , was in the Western camp .
cf23.63.1	pre-adv	Six years ago French Indochina was in the Western camp , though in troubie .
cf23.67.0	ref	Ceylon has moved from a pro-Western orientation to a neutralism openly hostile to the West .
cf23.67.1	post-adj2	Ceylon has moved to a neutralism openly hostile to the West from a pro-Western orientation .
cf23.72.0	ref	Today , Africa is swerving violently away from the West and plunging , it would seem , into the Soviet orbit .
cf23.72.1	post-adj2	Today , Africa is swerving away from the West violently and plunging , it would seem , into the Soviet orbit .
cf24.2.0	ref	`` Sounds exactly like last time '' .
cf24.2.1	post-adj2	`` Sounds like last time exactly '' .
cf24.15.0	ref	A woman with a small boy slipped in between them .
cf24.15.1	post-adj2	A woman with a small boy slipped between them in .
cf24.28.0	ref	The din was successful , too , for just before the moon disappeared , the frightened toad had begun to spit it out again , which meant good luck all around .
cf24.28.1	post-adv	For just before the moon disappeared , the frightened toad had begun to spit it out again , which meant good luck all around , the din was successful , too .
cf24.38.0	ref	This damage had been done in the battle of Vientiane , fought less than three months earlier when four successive governments had ruled here in three days -LRB- December 9-11 , 1960 -RRB- .
cf24.38.1	post-adv	This damage had been done in when four successive governments had ruled here in three days -LRB- December 9-11 , 1960 -RRB- the battle of Vientiane , fought less than three months earlier .
cf24.39.0	ref	And now , in March , all Laos suffered a state of siege .
cf24.39.1	pre-adj2	And in March , now , all Laos suffered a state of siege .
cf24.42.0	ref	`` And it 's all the more tragic because it 's so little deserved '' , said Mr. J. J. A. Frans , a Belgian official of the United Nations Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization .
cf24.42.1	post-adv	`` Because it 's so little deserved and it 's all the more tragic '' , said Mr. J. J. A. Frans , a Belgian official of the United Nations Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization .
cf24.42.2	iquote	`` And it 's all the more tragic because it 's so little deserved '' , Mr. J. J. A. Frans , a Belgian official of the United Nations Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization said .
cf24.43.0	ref	We talked after I hailed his Jeep marked with the U.N. flag .
cf24.43.1	post-adv	After I hailed his Jeep marked with the U.N. flag we talked .
cf24.57.0	ref	To many a Frenchman -- they came 95 years ago , colonized , and stayed until Laos became independent in 1953 -- the land had been even more delightfully tranquil than Tahiti .
cf24.57.1	post-adv	To many a Frenchman -- they until Laos became independent in 1953 came 95 years ago , colonized , and stayed -- the land had been even more delightfully tranquil than Tahiti .
cf24.62.0	ref	We were there at a moment when the situation in Laos threatened to ignite another war among the world 's giants .
cf24.62.1	post-adj2	We were at a moment when the situation in Laos threatened to ignite another war among the world 's giants there .
cf24.72.0	ref	Before the airplanes came , he said , travel in Laos was just about impossible .
cf24.72.1	pre-adv	He said , travel in Laos was just about impossible before the airplanes came .
cf24.80.0	ref	Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching him barefoot from village to village , as evidence of evil American intervention .
cf24.80.1	post-adj3	Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching him from village to village barefoot , as evidence of evil American intervention .
cf24.80.2	post-adj3	Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching him as evidence of evil American intervention from village to village , barefoot .
cf24.80.3	post-adj3	Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching him barefoot as evidence of evil American intervention , from village to village .
cf24.80.4	post-adj3	Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching him , as evidence of evil American intervention , barefoot from village to village .
cf24.80.5	post-adj3	Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching him from village to village , as evidence of evil American intervention barefoot .
cf24.81.0	ref	Although we enjoyed our rounds of the government offices in Vientiane , with officials offering tea and pleasing conversation in French , we were getting nowhere .
cf24.81.1	pre-adv	We were getting nowhere , although we enjoyed our rounds of the government offices in Vientiane , with officials offering tea and pleasing conversation in French .
cf24.82.0	ref	We had nearly decided that all the tales of Lao lethargy must be true , when we were invited to take a trip with the Prime Minister .
cf24.82.1	post-adv	We , when we were invited to take a trip with the Prime Minister , had nearly decided that all the tales of Lao lethargy must be true .
cf24.86.0	ref	And so , after a flight southeast to Savannakhet , we found ourselves bouncing along in a Jeep right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun Oum of Champassak , a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket and a ten-gallon hat from Texas .
cf24.86.1	post-adj3	And so , after a flight southeast to Savannakhet , we found ourselves bouncing in a Jeep along right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun Oum of Champassak , a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket and a ten-gallon hat from Texas .
cf24.86.2	post-adj3	And so , after a flight southeast to Savannakhet , we found ourselves bouncing right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun Oum of Champassak , a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket and a ten-gallon hat from Texas in a Jeep along .
cf24.86.3	post-adj3	And so , after a flight southeast to Savannakhet , we found ourselves bouncing along right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun Oum of Champassak , a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket and a ten-gallon hat from Texas in a Jeep .
cf24.86.4	post-adj3	And so , after a flight southeast to Savannakhet , we found ourselves bouncing right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun Oum of Champassak , a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket and a ten-gallon hat from Texas along in a Jeep .
cf24.86.5	post-adj3	And so , after a flight southeast to Savannakhet , we found ourselves bouncing in a Jeep right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun Oum of Champassak , a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket and a ten-gallon hat from Texas along .
cf24.91.0	ref	Then we drove on , until there was no more road and we traversed dry rice fields , bouncing across their squat earth walls .
cf24.91.1	post-adv	Until there was no more road , then we drove on and we traversed dry rice fields , bouncing across their squat earth walls .
cf24.98.0	ref	Together they had probably done more than any other men to help push Laos toward the 20th century -- constructively .
cf24.98.1	post-adv	Together they to help push Laos toward the 20th century -- constructively had probably done more than any other men .
cf24.101.0	ref	`` What you see are self-help projects '' , John said .
cf24.101.1	quote	`` What you see are self-help projects '' , said John .
cf24.108.0	ref	`` Our people have been used to accepting things as they found them '' , he said .
cf24.108.1	post-adv	`` Our people have been used to as they found them accepting things '' , he said .
cf24.108.2	quote	`` Our people have been used to accepting things as they found them '' , said he .
cf24.110.0	ref	Now they learn that men can change their surroundings , through their traditional village elders , without violence .
cf24.110.1	post-adj2	Now they learn that men can change their surroundings , without violence , through their traditional village elders .
cf24.113.0	ref	In the villages people lined up to give us flowers .
cf24.113.1	dat-np-np	In the villages people lined up to give flowers to us .
cf24.117.0	ref	Then we were off again .
cf24.117.1	post-adj2	Then we were again off .
cf24.120.0	ref	Crossing the 4,000-foot width of the Mekong at Champassak , on a raft with an outboard motor , we took off our dusty shirts and enjoyed a veritable ocean breeze .
cf24.120.1	post-adj2	Crossing the 4,000-foot width of the Mekong on a raft with an outboard motor , at Champassak , we took off our dusty shirts and enjoyed a veritable ocean breeze .
cf24.121.0	ref	Then we hung overboard in the water .
cf24.121.1	post-adj2	Then we hung in the water overboard .
cf24.122.0	ref	Briefly we rolled over a paved road up to Pak Song , on the cool Bolovens Plateau .
cf24.122.1	post-adj2	Briefly we rolled up to Pak Song , on the cool Bolovens Plateau over a paved road .
cf24.123.0	ref	The Prince visited the hospital of Operation Brotherhood , supported by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines , and fed rice to two pet elephants he kept at his residence at Pak Song .
cf24.123.1	dat-np-pp	The Prince visited the hospital of Operation Brotherhood , supported by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines , and fed two pet elephants he kept at his residence at Pak Song rice .
cf24.127.0	ref	It takes place in the household , a rite of well-wishing for myriad occasions -- for the traveler , a wedding , a newborn child , the sick , the New Year , for any good purpose .
cf24.127.1	dat-np-np	It takes a rite of well-wishing for myriad occasions -- for the traveler , a wedding , a newborn child , the sick , the New Year , for any good purpose in the household , to place .
cf24.130.0	ref	The candles were lighted , and we sat on split-bamboo mats among the village notables .
cf24.130.1	post-adj2	The candles were lighted , and we sat among the village notables on split-bamboo mats .
cf24.136.0	ref	With the divinities present and our souls in place , we were wished health , happiness , and power .
cf24.136.1	pre-adv	We were wished health , happiness , and power , with the divinities present and our souls in place .
cf24.139.0	ref	As we stepped out into the sunlight , a man came up to John Cool and silently showed him his hand .
cf24.139.1	dat-np-np	As we stepped out into the sunlight , a man came up to John Cool and silently showed his hand to him .
cf24.139.2	pre-adv	A man came up to John Cool and silently showed him his hand , as we stepped out into the sunlight .
cf25.3.0	ref	`` Being Jewish gives you tremendous drive '' , a boy remarked .
cf25.3.1	dat-np-np	`` Being Jewish gives tremendous drive to you '' , a boy remarked .
cf25.3.2	quote	`` Being Jewish gives you tremendous drive '' , remarked a boy .
cf25.5.0	ref	When I pressed for a purely religious definition , I encountered the familiar blend of liberal piety , interfaith good will , and a small residue of ethnic loyalty .
cf25.5.1	pre-adv	I encountered the familiar blend of liberal piety , interfaith good will , and a small residue of ethnic loyalty , when I pressed for a purely religious definition .
cf25.6.0	ref	`` I like the tradition '' , a girl said .
cf25.6.1	quote	`` I like the tradition '' , said a girl .
cf25.7.0	ref	`` I like to follow the holidays when they come along .
cf25.7.1	post-adv	`` I like when they come along to follow the holidays .
cf25.10.0	ref	As I see it , there 's no real difference between being Jewish , Catholic , or Protestant '' .
cf25.10.1	pre-adv	There 's no real difference between being Jewish , Catholic , or Protestant , as I see it '' .
cf25.13.0	ref	When asked how this was different from being a good Protestant , the boy answered , `` It 's the same thing '' .
cf25.13.1	pre-adv	The boy answered , `` It 's the same thing '' , when asked how this was different from being a good Protestant .
cf25.15.0	ref	They discovered that , although 42 per cent of a sample of Catholic students and 15 per cent of the Protestants believed it important to live in accordance with the teachings of their religion , only 8 per cent of the Jewish students had this conviction .
cf25.15.1	pre-adv	They discovered that , only 8 per cent of the Jewish students had this conviction , although 42 per cent of a sample of Catholic students and 15 per cent of the Protestants believed it important to live in accordance with the teachings of their religion .
cf25.19.0	ref	One boy said querulously about Orthodox Jews : `` It 's the twentieth century , and they do n't have to wear beards '' .
cf25.19.1	post-adj2	One boy said about Orthodox Jews querulously : `` It 's the twentieth century , and they do n't have to wear beards '' .
cf25.23.0	ref	Still another suggested that he would join a temple `` for social reasons , since I 'll be living in a suburb '' .
cf25.23.1	post-adv	Still another suggested that he , since I 'll be living in a suburb , would join a temple `` for social reasons .
cf25.26.0	ref	`` When you marry , you want to have things in common '' , a girl said , `` and it 's hard when you do n't marry someone with your own background '' .
cf25.26.1	post-adv	`` When you marry , you want to have things in common '' , a girl said , `` and when you do n't marry someone with your own background it 's hard '' .
cf25.26.2	pre-adv	`` You want to have things in common , when you marry '' , a girl said , `` and it 's hard when you do n't marry someone with your own background '' .
cf25.28.0	ref	It appears that an Orthodox girl in the community disrupted plans for an outing sponsored by one of the Jewish service groups because she would not travel on Saturday and , in addition , required kosher food .
cf25.28.1	post-adv	It appears that because she would not travel on Saturday and , in addition , required kosher food an Orthodox girl in the community disrupted plans for an outing sponsored by one of the Jewish service groups .
cf25.37.0	ref	However , in their junior and senior years , they generally forego their athletic pursuits , presumably in the interest of better academic achievement .
cf25.37.1	pre-adj2	In their junior and senior years , however , they generally forego their athletic pursuits , presumably in the interest of better academic achievement .
cf25.37.2	post-adj2	However , in their junior and senior years , they generally forego their athletic pursuits , in the interest of better academic achievement presumably .
cf25.41.0	ref	The vocational motive is the dominant one for boys , while Jewish girls attend college for social reasons and to become culturally developed .
cf25.41.1	post-adv	While Jewish girls attend college for social reasons and to become culturally developed , the vocational motive is the dominant one for boys .
cf25.45.0	ref	`` People automatically assume that I 'm in college '' , a nineteen-year-old machinist observed irritably .
cf25.45.1	quote	`` People automatically assume that I 'm in college '' , observed a nineteen-year-old machinist irritably .
cf25.46.0	ref	However , among the girls , there are some morale-enhancing compensations for not going to college .
cf25.46.1	pre-adj2	Among the girls , however , there are some morale-enhancing compensations for not going to college .
cf25.47.0	ref	The Jewish working girl almost invariably works in an office -- in contradistinction to gentile factory workers -- and , buttressed by a respectable income , she is likely to dress better and live more expansively than the college student .
cf25.47.1	post-adj2	The Jewish working girl almost invariably works in contradistinction to gentile factory workers -- in an office -- and , buttressed by a respectable income , she is likely to dress better and live more expansively than the college student .
cf25.52.0	ref	What is noteworthy about this large group of teen-agers is that , although their attitudes hardly differentiate them from their gentile counterparts , they actually lead their lives in a vast self-enclosed Jewish cosmos with relatively little contact with the non-Jewish world .
cf25.52.1	pre-adv	What is noteworthy about this large group of teen-agers is that , they actually lead their lives in a vast self-enclosed Jewish cosmos with relatively little contact with the non-Jewish world , although their attitudes hardly differentiate them from their gentile counterparts .
cf25.55.0	ref	Typically , in a lower-middle class Jewish family , a son will be sent to an out-of-town school , if financial resources warrant it , while the daughter will attend the local college .
cf25.55.1	pre-adj2	In a lower-middle class Jewish family , typically , a son will be sent to an out-of-town school , if financial resources warrant it , while the daughter will attend the local college .
cf25.55.2	post-adv	Typically , in a lower-middle class Jewish family , a son will , if financial resources warrant it , be sent to an out-of-town school while the daughter will attend the local college .
cf25.55.3	post-adv	Typically , in a lower-middle class Jewish family , a son will , while the daughter will attend the local college , be sent to an out-of-town school , if financial resources warrant it .
cf25.60.0	ref	The consequence of this is that the girls at Brooklyn College outnumber the boys and do somewhat better academically .
cf25.60.1	post-adj2	The consequence of this is that the girls at Brooklyn College outnumber the boys and do academically somewhat better .
cf25.67.0	ref	`` It 's people of your own kind '' , a girl remarked .
cf25.67.1	quote	`` It 's people of your own kind '' , remarked a girl .
cf25.74.0	ref	`` As long as I 'm home , I 'll never grow up '' , a nineteen-year-old boy observed sadly .
cf25.74.1	quote	`` As long as I 'm home , I 'll never grow up '' , observed a nineteen-year-old boy sadly .
cf25.75.0	ref	`` They do n't like it if I do anything away from home .
cf25.75.1	post-adv	`` They if I do anything away from home do n't like it .
cf25.81.0	ref	Under pressure from parents , the majority of Brooklyn College girls major in education since that co-ordinates best with marriage plans -- limited graduate study requirement and convenient working hours .
cf25.81.1	post-adv	Since that co-ordinates best with marriage plans -- limited graduate study requirement and convenient working hours under pressure from parents , the majority of Brooklyn College girls major in education .
cf25.83.0	ref	A kind of double standard exists here for Jewish boys and girls as it does in the realm of sex .
cf25.83.1	post-adv	As it does in the realm of sex a kind of double standard exists here for Jewish boys and girls .
cf25.83.2	post-adj2	A kind of double standard exists for Jewish boys and girls here as it does in the realm of sex .
cf25.86.0	ref	Then , with the new affluence , there is actually a sallying forth into the wide , wide world beyond the precincts of New York .
cf25.86.1	pre-adj2	With the new affluence , then , there is actually a sallying forth into the wide , wide world beyond the precincts of New York .
cf25.87.0	ref	It is significant that the Catskills , which used to be the summer playground for older teen-agers , a kind of summer suburb of New York , no longer attracts them in great numbers -- except for those who work there as waiters , bus boys , or counselors in the day camps .
cf25.87.1	post-adj2	It is significant that the Catskills , which used to be the summer playground for older teen-agers , a kind of summer suburb of New York , no longer attracts them except for those who work there as waiters , bus boys , or counselors in the day camps -- in great numbers .
cf25.90.0	ref	Although Brooklyn College does not yet have a junior-year-abroad program , a good number of students spend summers in Europe .
cf25.90.1	pre-adv	A good number of students spend summers in Europe , although Brooklyn College does not yet have a junior-year-abroad program .
cf25.91.0	ref	In general , however , the timetable of travel lags considerably behind that of the student at Harvard or Smith .
cf25.91.1	pre-adj2	However , in general , the timetable of travel lags considerably behind that of the student at Harvard or Smith .
cf25.92.0	ref	And acculturation into the world at large is likely to occur for the Brooklyn College student after college rather than during the four school years .
cf25.92.1	post-adj2	And acculturation into the world at large is likely to occur after college rather than during the four school years for the Brooklyn College student .
cf25.95.0	ref	It is interesting that , although the percentage of married students is not appreciably higher at Brooklyn than elsewhere -- about 30 per cent of the women and 25 per cent of the men in the graduating class -- the anxiety of the unmarried has puffed up the estimate .
cf25.95.1	pre-adv	It is interesting that , the anxiety of the unmarried has puffed up the estimate although the percentage of married students is not appreciably higher at Brooklyn than elsewhere -- about 30 per cent of the women and 25 per cent of the men in the graduating class .
cf25.95.2	post-adj2	It is interesting that , although the percentage of married students is not appreciably higher than elsewhere at Brooklyn -- about 30 per cent of the women and 25 per cent of the men in the graduating class -- the anxiety of the unmarried has puffed up the estimate .
cf25.96.0	ref	`` Almost everybody in the senior class is married '' , students say dogmatically .
cf25.96.1	quote	`` Almost everybody in the senior class is married '' , say students dogmatically .
cf25.97.0	ref	And the school newspaper sells space to jubilant fraternities , sororities , and houses -LRB- in the House Plan Association -RRB- that have good news to impart .
cf25.97.1	dat-np-pp	And the school newspaper sells jubilant fraternities , sororities , and houses -LRB- in the House Plan Association -RRB- that have good news to impart space .
cf26.4.0	ref	Or she might place cornstarch in the oven for a short time and then apply this under her breasts .
cf26.4.1	post-adj2	Or she might place cornstarch for a short time in the oven and then apply this under her breasts .
cf26.7.0	ref	Bruises , burns , cuts , etc. , occurred frequently on the frontier , and folk medicine gave the answers to these problems too .
cf26.7.1	post-adj2	Bruises , burns , cuts , etc. , occurred on the frontier frequently , and folk medicine gave the answers to these problems too .
cf26.12.0	ref	Another swore by vinegar baths for burns , and still another recommended salted butter .
cf26.12.1	post-adj2	Another swore for burns by vinegar baths , and still another recommended salted butter .
cf26.14.0	ref	This was made by putting butter in a pan of water and allowing it to boil ; when it was cool , the fat was skimmed off and bottled .
cf26.14.1	pre-adv	This was made by putting butter in a pan of water and allowing it to boil ; the fat was skimmed off and bottled , when it was cool .
cf26.16.0	ref	One man , badly burned about the face and eyes by an arc welding torch , was blinded and could not find a doctor at the time .
cf26.16.1	post-adj2	One man , badly burned by an arc welding torch about the face and eyes , was blinded and could not find a doctor at the time .
cf26.21.0	ref	One old-timer said to sprinkle sugar on a bleeding cut , even when on a knuckle , if it was made by a rusty tool ; this would stop the flow and also prevent infection .
cf26.21.1	post-adv	One old-timer said , even when on a knuckle , to sprinkle sugar on a bleeding cut if it was made by a rusty tool ; this would stop the flow and also prevent infection .
cf26.21.2	post-adv	One old-timer said , if it was made by a rusty tool , to sprinkle sugar on a bleeding cut , even when on a knuckle ; this would stop the flow and also prevent infection .
cf26.23.0	ref	He showed me one of his fingers which had been practically amputated and which his mother had treated ; there is scarcely a scar showing .
cf26.23.1	dat-np-np	He showed one of his fingers which had been practically amputated and which his mother had treated to me ; there is scarcely a scar showing .
cf26.26.0	ref	Or a thin slice of plug tobacco might be laid on the open wound without chewing .
cf26.26.1	post-adj2	Or a thin slice of plug tobacco might be laid without chewing on the open wound .
cf26.27.0	ref	One old man told me that when he was a boy he was kicked in the head by a fractious mule and had his scalp laid back from the entire front of his head .
cf26.27.1	pre-adv	One old man told me that he was kicked in the head by a fractious mule and had his scalp laid back from the entire front of his head when he was a boy .
cf26.27.2	post-adj2	One old man told me that when he was a boy he was kicked by a fractious mule in the head and had his scalp laid back from the entire front of his head .
cf26.28.0	ref	His brother ran a mile to get the father ; when they reached the boy , the father sliced a new plug of tobacco , put the scalp back in place , and covered the raw edges with the slices .
cf26.28.1	pre-adv	His brother ran a mile to get the father ; the father sliced a new plug of tobacco , put the scalp back in place , and covered the raw edges with the slices , when they reached the boy .
cf26.32.0	ref	Until quite recently , `` sterile '' maggots could be bought to apply to a wound ; they would feed on its surface , leaving it clean so that it could be medically treated .
cf26.32.1	post-adv	Until quite recently , `` sterile '' maggots could be bought to apply to a wound ; they would feed on its surface , so that it could be medically treated leaving it clean .
cf26.39.0	ref	While nowadays we recognize the fact that there are many causes for bleeding at the nose , not long ago a nosebleed was simply that , and treatment had little variation .
cf26.39.1	pre-adv	Not long ago a nosebleed was simply that , while nowadays we recognize the fact that there are many causes for bleeding at the nose , and treatment had little variation .
cf26.40.0	ref	Since a fall or blow might have caused it , a cold pack was usually first aid .
cf26.40.1	pre-adv	A cold pack was usually first aid , since a fall or blow might have caused it .
cf26.43.0	ref	Or the victim could chew hard on a piece of paper , meanwhile pressing his fingers tight in his ears .
cf26.43.1	post-adj2	Or the victim could chew on a piece of paper hard , meanwhile pressing his fingers tight in his ears .
cf26.45.0	ref	Blood blisters could be prevented from forming by rubbing a work blister immediately with any hard nonpoisonous substance .
cf26.45.1	post-adj2	Blood blisters could be prevented by rubbing a work blister immediately with any hard nonpoisonous substance from forming .
cf26.47.0	ref	As the cloth dried , more of the mixture was applied , and after twenty-four hours the felon was supposed to be `` killed '' .
cf26.47.1	pre-adv	More of the mixture was applied , as the cloth dried , and after twenty-four hours the felon was supposed to be `` killed '' .
cf26.50.0	ref	This was used also for bruises .
cf26.50.1	post-adj2	This was used for bruises also .
cf26.65.0	ref	A cinder or other small object could be removed from the eye by placing a flaxseed in the eye .
cf26.65.1	post-adj2	A cinder or other small object could be removed by placing a flaxseed in the eye from the eye .
cf26.66.0	ref	As the seed swelled its glutinous covering protected the eyeball from irritation , and both the cinder and the seed could soon be washed out .
cf26.66.1	pre-adv	Its glutinous covering protected the eyeball from irritation as the seed swelled , and both the cinder and the seed could soon be washed out .
cf26.69.0	ref	For erysipelas a mixture of one dram borax and one ounce glycerine was applied to the afflicted part on linen cloth .
cf26.69.1	post-adj2	For erysipelas a mixture of one dram borax and one ounce glycerine was applied on linen cloth to the afflicted part .
cf26.77.0	ref	Another remedy was oil of eucalyptus , used as well for chilblains .
cf26.77.1	post-adj2	Another remedy was oil of eucalyptus , used for chilblains as well .
cf26.80.0	ref	A German informant gave me a sure cure made by combining rye flour and molasses into a poultice .
cf26.80.1	dat-np-np	A German informant gave a sure cure made by combining rye flour and molasses into a poultice to me .
cf26.81.0	ref	Another poultice was made from the inner bark of the elm tree , steeped in water until it formed a sticky , gummy solution .
cf26.81.1	post-adv	Another poultice was made from until it formed a sticky , gummy solution the inner bark of the elm tree , steeped in water .
cf26.86.0	ref	This softened the skin so that in the morning when the bandage was removed the corn could be scraped off and a bit of corn plaster put on .
cf26.86.1	post-adv	So that in the morning when the bandage was removed the corn could be scraped off and a bit of corn plaster put on this softened the skin .
cf26.86.2	pre-adv	This softened the skin so that in the morning the corn could be scraped off when the bandage was removed and a bit of corn plaster put on .
cf26.88.0	ref	One young girl told me how her mother removed a wart from her finger by soaking a copper penny in vinegar for three days and then painting the finger with the liquid several times .
cf26.88.1	post-adj2	One young girl told me how her mother removed a wart by soaking a copper penny in vinegar for three days and then painting the finger with the liquid several times from her finger .
cf26.90.0	ref	Saliva gathered in the mouth after a night 's sleep was considered poisonous ; wetting a wart with this saliva on wakening the first thing in the morning was supposed to cause it to disappear after only a few treatments , and strangely enough many warts did just that .
cf26.90.1	post-adj2	Saliva gathered after a night 's sleep in the mouth was considered poisonous ; wetting a wart with this saliva on wakening the first thing in the morning was supposed to cause it to disappear after only a few treatments , and strangely enough many warts did just that .
cf26.92.0	ref	Another was to soak raw beef in vinegar for twenty-four hours , tie it on the wart , and wear it for a week .
cf26.92.1	post-adj2	Another was to soak raw beef for twenty-four hours in vinegar , tie it on the wart , and wear it for a week .
cf26.93.0	ref	A simpler method was to tie a thread tightly around the wart at its base and wear it this way .
cf26.93.1	post-adj3	A simpler method was to tie a thread around the wart tightly at its base and wear it this way .
cf26.93.2	post-adj3	A simpler method was to tie a thread at its base around the wart tightly and wear it this way .
cf26.93.3	post-adj3	A simpler method was to tie a thread tightly at its base around the wart and wear it this way .
cf26.93.4	post-adj3	A simpler method was to tie a thread , at its base , tightly around the wart and wear it this way .
cf26.93.5	post-adj3	A simpler method was to tie a thread around the wart at its base tightly and wear it this way .
cf26.99.0	ref	Leg cramps , one person tells me , were relieved by standing barefoot with the weight of the body on the heel and pressing down hard .
cf26.99.1	post-adv	Leg cramps , one person tells me , were relieved by with the weight of the body on the heel standing barefoot and pressing down hard .
cf26.100.0	ref	This does give relief , as I can testify .
cf26.100.1	post-adv	This , as I can testify , does give relief .
cf26.101.0	ref	One doctor prescribed a tablespoon of whiskey or brandy before each meal for leg cramps .
cf26.101.1	post-adj2	One doctor prescribed a tablespoon of whiskey or brandy for leg cramps before each meal .
cf26.102.0	ref	Pains in the back of the leg and in the abdomen were prevented from reaching the upper body by tying a rope about the patient 's waist .
cf26.102.1	post-adj2	Pains in the back of the leg and in the abdomen were prevented by tying a rope about the patient 's waist from reaching the upper body .
cf27.4.0	ref	However , by cultivating a wine dealer and accepting his advice , one will soon enough ascertain whether he has any knowledge of wines -LRB- as opposed to what he may have been told by salesmen and promoters -RRB- and , better yet , whether he has a taste for wine .
cf27.4.1	pre-adj2	By cultivating a wine dealer and accepting his advice , however , one will soon enough ascertain whether he has any knowledge of wines -LRB- as opposed to what he may have been told by salesmen and promoters -RRB- and , better yet , whether he has a taste for wine .
cf27.5.0	ref	Again , by spreading one 's purchases over several wine dealers , one becomes familiar with the names and specialties of reputable wine dealers and shippers abroad .
cf27.5.1	pre-adj2	By spreading one 's purchases over several wine dealers , again , one becomes familiar with the names and specialties of reputable wine dealers and shippers abroad .
cf27.6.0	ref	This is important because , despite all the efforts of the French government , an appreciable segment of France 's export trade in wines is still tainted with a misrepresentation approaching downright dishonesty , and there are many too many negociants who would rather turn a sou than amass a creditable reputation overseas .
cf27.6.1	post-adv	Because , despite all the efforts of the French government , an appreciable segment of France 's export trade in wines is still tainted with a misrepresentation approaching downright dishonesty , and there are many too many negociants who would rather turn a sou than amass a creditable reputation overseas this is important .
cf27.8.0	ref	These are the wines the French themselves use for everyday drinking , for even in France virtually no one drinks the Grands Crus on a meal-to-meal basis .
cf27.8.1	post-adv	For even in France virtually no one drinks the Grands Crus on a meal-to-meal basis , these are the wines the French themselves use for everyday drinking .
cf27.10.0	ref	And certainly , in the case of the beginner or the comparatively uninitiated wine drinker , the palate and the capacity for appreciation will not be ready for the Grands Crus as a steady diet without frequent recourse to crus of less renown .
cf27.10.1	pre-adj2	And in the case of the beginner or the comparatively uninitiated wine drinker , certainly , the palate and the capacity for appreciation will not be ready for the Grands Crus as a steady diet without frequent recourse to crus of less renown .
cf27.13.0	ref	Consultation with a reputable wine dealer and constant experimentation -- `` steering ever from the known to the unknown '' -- are the requisites .
cf27.13.1	post-adj3	Consultation with a reputable wine dealer and constant experimentation -- `` steering from the known ever to the unknown '' -- are the requisites .
cf27.13.2	post-adj3	Consultation with a reputable wine dealer and constant experimentation -- `` steering to the unknown from the known ever '' -- are the requisites .
cf27.13.3	post-adj3	Consultation with a reputable wine dealer and constant experimentation -- `` steering ever to the unknown from the known '' -- are the requisites .
cf27.13.4	post-adj3	Consultation with a reputable wine dealer and constant experimentation -- `` steering to the unknown ever from the known '' -- are the requisites .
cf27.13.5	post-adj3	Consultation with a reputable wine dealer and constant experimentation -- `` steering from the known to the unknown ever '' -- are the requisites .
cf27.14.0	ref	Wine waiters are something else again ; especially if one is travelling or dining out a great deal , their importance mounts .
cf27.14.1	pre-adv	Wine waiters are something else again ; their importance mounts , especially if one is travelling or dining out a great deal .
cf27.15.0	ref	Most of them , the world over , operate on the same principle by which justice is administered in France and some other Latin countries : the customer is to be considered guilty of abysmal ignorance until proven otherwise , with the burden of proof on the customer himself .
cf27.15.1	post-adv	Most of them , the world over , operate on the same principle by which justice is administered in France and some other Latin countries : the customer is to , until proven otherwise , be considered guilty of abysmal ignorance with the burden of proof on the customer himself .
cf27.15.2	post-adv	Most of them , the world over , operate on the same principle by which justice is administered in France and some other Latin countries : the customer is to , with the burden of proof on the customer himself , be considered guilty of abysmal ignorance until proven otherwise .
cf27.16.0	ref	Now the drinking of wine -LRB- and happily so ! -RRB- is for the most part a recondite affair , for manifestly , if everyone in the world who could afford the best wines also liked them , the supply would dry up in no time at all .
cf27.16.1	post-adv	For manifestly , if everyone in the world who could afford the best wines also liked them , the supply would dry up in no time at all , now the drinking of wine -LRB- and happily so ! -RRB- is for the most part a recondite affair .
cf27.16.2	pre-adv	Now the drinking of wine -LRB- and happily so ! -RRB- is for the most part a recondite affair , for manifestly the supply would dry up in no time at all , if everyone in the world who could afford the best wines also liked them .
cf27.20.0	ref	The one way to get around them -- short of knowing exactly what one wants and sticking to it -- is to frequent a single establishment until its wine waiter is persuaded that one is at least as interested in wine as in spending money .
cf27.20.1	post-adv	The one way to get around them -- short of knowing exactly what one wants and sticking to it -- is until its wine waiter is persuaded that one is at least as interested in wine as in spending money to frequent a single establishment .
cf27.21.0	ref	Only then , perhaps , will he reveal his jewels and his bargains .
cf27.21.1	pre-adj2	Perhaps , only then , will he reveal his jewels and his bargains .
cf27.22.0	ref	Wine bought from a dealer should ideally be allowed to rest for several weeks before it is served .
cf27.22.1	post-adv	Wine bought from a dealer should ideally before it is served be allowed to rest for several weeks .
cf27.23.0	ref	This is especially true of red wines , and a practice which , though not always practicable , is well worth the effort .
cf27.23.1	pre-adv	This is especially true of red wines , and a practice which , is well worth the effort , though not always practicable .
cf27.24.0	ref	It does no harm for wine to stand on end for a matter of days , but in terms of months and years it is fatal .
cf27.24.1	post-adj2	It does no harm for wine to stand for a matter of days on end , but in terms of months and years it is fatal .
cf27.26.0	ref	When stacking wine on its side in a bin , care should always be taken to be sure there is no air bubble left next to the cork .
cf27.26.1	pre-adv	Care should always be taken to be sure there is no air bubble left next to the cork , when stacking wine on its side in a bin .
cf27.26.2	post-adj2	When stacking wine in a bin on its side , care should always be taken to be sure there is no air bubble left next to the cork .
cf27.27.0	ref	Fat bottles , such as Burgundies , have a way of rolling around in the bin and often need little props , such as a bit of cardboard or a chip of wood , to hold them in the proper reclining posture .
cf27.27.1	post-adv	Fat bottles , such as Burgundies , to hold them in the proper reclining posture , have a way of rolling around in the bin and often need little props , such as a bit of cardboard or a chip of wood .
cf27.27.2	post-adj2	Fat bottles , such as Burgundies , have a way of rolling in the bin around and often need little props , such as a bit of cardboard or a chip of wood , to hold them in the proper reclining posture .
cf27.28.0	ref	Too much dampness in the cellar rots the corks , again with ill effects .
cf27.28.1	post-adj2	Too much dampness in the cellar rots the corks , with ill effects again .
cf27.29.0	ref	The best rule of thumb for detecting corked wine -LRB- provided the eye has not already spotted it -RRB- is to smell the wet end of the cork after pulling it : if it smells of wine , the bottle is probably all right ; if it smells of cork , one has grounds for suspicion .
cf27.29.1	pre-adv	The best rule of thumb for detecting corked wine -LRB- provided the eye has not already spotted it -RRB- is to smell the wet end of the cork after pulling it : the bottle is probably all right , if it smells of wine ; if it smells of cork , one has grounds for suspicion .
cf27.29.2	pre-adv	The best rule of thumb for detecting corked wine -LRB- provided the eye has not already spotted it -RRB- is to smell the wet end of the cork after pulling it : if it smells of wine , the bottle is probably all right ; one has grounds for suspicion , if it smells of cork .
cf27.33.0	ref	If one lives near a subway or an express parkway , the solution is to have one 's wines stored with a dealer and brought home a few at a time .
cf27.33.1	pre-adv	The solution is to have one 's wines stored with a dealer and brought home a few at a time , if one lives near a subway or an express parkway .
cf27.36.0	ref	No one should wish to deny these purists the obvious pleasure they derive from all this , and to give fair warning where warning is due , no one who becomes fond of wines ever avoids acquiring some degree of purism !
cf27.36.1	dat-np-np	No one should wish to deny the obvious pleasure they derive from all this to these purists , and to give fair warning where warning is due , no one who becomes fond of wines ever avoids acquiring some degree of purism !
cf27.37.0	ref	But the fact remains that in most restaurants , including some of the best of Paris and Bordeaux and Dijon , the bottle is frankly and simply brought from the cellar to the table when ordered , and all the conditioning or preparation it ever receives takes place while the chef is preparing the meal .
cf27.37.1	post-adv	But the fact remains that in most restaurants , including some of the best of Paris and Bordeaux and Dijon , the bottle when ordered is frankly and simply brought from the cellar to the table , and all the conditioning or preparation it ever receives takes place while the chef is preparing the meal .
cf27.37.2	post-adv	But the fact remains that in most restaurants , including some of the best of Paris and Bordeaux and Dijon , the bottle is frankly and simply brought from the cellar to the table when ordered , and while the chef is preparing the meal all the conditioning or preparation it ever receives takes place .
cf27.39.0	ref	Though by no means an ideal procedure , a red wine may similarly be brought from the cellar to the dining room and opened twenty minutes or so before serving time .
cf27.39.1	pre-adv	A red wine may similarly be brought from the cellar to the dining room and opened twenty minutes or so before serving time , though by no means an ideal procedure .
cf27.39.2	post-adj2	Though by no means an ideal procedure , a red wine may similarly be brought to the dining room from the cellar and opened twenty minutes or so before serving time .
cf27.40.0	ref	It may be a bit cold when poured ; but again , as one will have observed at any restaurant worth its salt , wine should be served in a large , tulip-shaped glass , which is never filled more than half full .
cf27.40.1	post-adv	It when poured may be a bit cold ; but again , as one will have observed at any restaurant worth its salt , wine should be served in a large , tulip-shaped glass , which is never filled more than half full .
cf27.40.2	pre-adv	It may be a bit cold when poured ; but again wine should be served in a large , tulip-shaped glass , which is never filled more than half full , as one will have observed at any restaurant worth its salt .
cf27.41.0	ref	In this way , red wine warms of itself quite rapidly -- and though it is true that it may not attain its potential of taste and fragrance until after the middle of the meal -LRB- or the course -RRB- , in the meantime it will have run the gamut of many beguiling and interesting stages .
cf27.41.1	pre-adv	In this way , red wine warms of itself quite rapidly -- and in the meantime it will have run the gamut of many beguiling and interesting stages , though it is true that it may not attain its potential of taste and fragrance until after the middle of the meal -LRB- or the course -RRB- .
cf27.41.2	post-adj2	In this way , red wine warms quite rapidly of itself -- and though it is true that it may not attain its potential of taste and fragrance until after the middle of the meal -LRB- or the course -RRB- , in the meantime it will have run the gamut of many beguiling and interesting stages .
cf27.44.0	ref	It should not be forgotten that wines mature fastest in half-bottles , less fast in full bottles , slowly in Magnums -- and slower yet in Tregnums , double Magnums , Jeroboams , Methuselahs , and Imperiales , respectively .
cf27.44.1	post-adj2	It should not be forgotten that wines mature in half-bottles fastest , less fast in full bottles , slowly in Magnums -- and slower yet in Tregnums , double Magnums , Jeroboams , Methuselahs , and Imperiales , respectively .
cf27.45.0	ref	Very old red wines often require several hours of aeration , and any red wine , brought from the cellar within half an hour of mealtime , should be uncorked and allowed some air .
cf27.45.1	post-adj2	Very old red wines often require several hours of aeration , and any red wine , brought within half an hour of mealtime from the cellar , should be uncorked and allowed some air .
cf27.47.0	ref	White wines should be opened when served , having been previously chilled in proportion to their sweetness .
cf27.47.1	post-adv	White wines should , when served , be opened having been previously chilled in proportion to their sweetness .
cf27.50.0	ref	The fragrance and taste of any white wine will die a lingering death when it is allowed to warm or is exposed for long to the air .
cf27.50.1	post-adv	The fragrance and taste of any white wine when it is allowed to warm or is exposed for long to the air will die a lingering death .
cf27.50.2	post-adj2	The fragrance and taste of any white wine will die a lingering death when it is allowed to warm or is exposed to the air for long .
cf27.52.0	ref	This does not mean , though , that a red wine improves with prolonged aeration : there is a reasonable limit -- and wines kept over to the next meal or the next day , after they have once been opened , are never as good .
cf27.52.1	post-adv	This does not mean , though , that a red wine improves with prolonged aeration : there is a reasonable limit -- and , after they have once been opened , wines kept over to the next meal or the next day , are never as good .
cf27.53.0	ref	If this must be done , they should always be corked and kept in a cool place ; it should be remembered that their lasting qualities are appreciably shorter than those of milk .
cf27.53.1	pre-adv	They should always be corked and kept in a cool place , if this must be done ; it should be remembered that their lasting qualities are appreciably shorter than those of milk .
cf27.56.0	ref	Thus , red wine must , if possible , never be disturbed or shaken ; very old red wine is often decanted so that the puckering , bitter elements which have settled to the bottom will not be mingled with the wine itself .
cf27.56.1	post-adv	If possible , thus , red wine must never be disturbed or shaken ; very old red wine is often decanted so that the puckering , bitter elements which have settled to the bottom will not be mingled with the wine itself .
cf27.56.2	post-adv	Thus , red wine must , if possible , never be disturbed or shaken ; very old red wine so that the puckering , bitter elements which have settled to the bottom will not be mingled with the wine itself is often decanted .
cf27.61.0	ref	In France , when one wishes to entertain at a restaurant and serve truly fine old red wines , one visits the restaurant well ahead of time , chooses the wines and , with the advice of the manager and his chef , builds the menu around them .
cf27.61.1	pre-adv	In France one visits the restaurant well ahead of time , chooses the wines and , with the advice of the manager and his chef , builds the menu around them , when one wishes to entertain at a restaurant and serve truly fine old red wines .
cf27.65.0	ref	Though there are many exceptions , which we have noted in preceding pages , white wine is as a rule best consumed between two and six years old , and red wines , nowadays , between three and ten .
cf27.65.1	pre-adv	White wine is as a rule best consumed between two and six years old , though there are many exceptions , which we have noted in preceding pages , and red wines , nowadays , between three and ten .
cf27.67.0	ref	Some clarets do not come into their own until they are ten or fifteen years of age , or even more .
cf27.67.1	post-adv	Some clarets until they are ten or fifteen years of age , or even more do not come into their own .
cf27.68.0	ref	If a red Bordeaux of a good name and year is bitter or acid , or cloying and muddy-tasting , leave it alone for a while .
cf27.68.1	pre-adv	Leave it alone for a while , if a red Bordeaux of a good name and year is bitter or acid , or cloying and muddy-tasting .
cf27.69.0	ref	Most of the wines of Beaujolais , on the other hand , should be drunk while very young ; and Alsatians may be .
cf27.69.1	post-adv	Most of the wines of Beaujolais , on the other hand , should while very young be drunk ; and Alsatians may be .
cf28.5.0	ref	William , who lived in neighboring St. Mary 's parish , had taken charge and decided that it would be best for all if the plantation were operated for another year .
cf28.5.1	post-adv	William , who lived in neighboring St. Mary 's parish , had taken charge and decided that it if the plantation were operated for another year would be best for all .
cf28.7.0	ref	If sold then , the land and improvements might bring only $ 5,000 .
cf28.7.1	pre-adv	The land and improvements might bring only $ 5,000 , if sold then .
cf28.12.0	ref	The suggestion that Giffen hire out the slaves was not realistic , since no planter would take the risk of having Negroes who knew they were to be free living with his own slaves .
cf28.12.1	post-adv	Since no planter would take the risk of having Negroes who knew they were to be free living with his own slaves , the suggestion that Giffen hire out the slaves was not realistic .
cf28.13.0	ref	Henry hid his annoyance , although both he and William were furious with their Yankee brother .
cf28.13.1	post-adv	Although both he and William were furious with their Yankee brother , Henry hid his annoyance .
cf28.14.0	ref	William , who did not write to Gorham , told Giffen that unless he could operate the plantation as usual for a year , he would sue `` amicably '' to protect his interests .
cf28.14.1	pre-adv	William , who did not write to Gorham , told Giffen that he would sue `` amicably '' to protect his interests , unless he could operate the plantation as usual for a year .
cf28.15.0	ref	Palfrey was determined that his portion of the slaves be converted to wage laborers during the transition period before emancipation .
cf28.15.1	post-adj2	Palfrey was determined that his portion of the slaves be converted during the transition period before emancipation to wage laborers .
cf28.16.0	ref	If William wished to continue operations for a year , why not simply leave the Negroes undisturbed and pay them `` as high wages to remain there as are ever paid the labor of persons of their sex & age .
cf28.16.1	dat-np-np	If William wished to continue operations for a year , why not simply leave the Negroes undisturbed and pay as high wages `` to them to remain there as are ever paid the labor of persons of their sex & age .
cf28.19.0	ref	When he heard of his brothers ' anger , Palfrey was still hopeful that they could be persuaded to accept his notion of paying wages .
cf28.19.1	pre-adv	Palfrey was still hopeful that they could be persuaded to accept his notion of paying wages , when he heard of his brothers ' anger .
cf28.20.0	ref	If not , he was willing to accede to William 's wishes in any way that did not block his ultimate aim .
cf28.20.1	pre-adv	He was willing to accede to William 's wishes in any way that did not block his ultimate aim , if not .
cf28.20.2	post-adj2	If not , he was willing to accede in any way that did not block his ultimate aim to William 's wishes .
cf28.21.0	ref	William was adamant on one point : under no circumstances would he allow the Negroes to remain on the plantation with his and Henry 's slaves if they were told of their coming freedom .
cf28.21.1	post-adv	William was adamant on one point : if they were told of their coming freedom under no circumstances would he allow the Negroes to remain on the plantation with his and Henry 's slaves .
cf28.21.2	post-adj2	William was adamant on one point : under no circumstances would he allow the Negroes to remain with his and Henry 's slaves on the plantation if they were told of their coming freedom .
cf28.29.0	ref	If Palfrey ever had any doubts about the wickedness of slavery , they were put aside after he received an inventory of the slave property he had inherited .
cf28.29.1	post-adv	If Palfrey ever had any doubts about the wickedness of slavery , they after he received an inventory of the slave property he had inherited were put aside .
cf28.29.2	pre-adv	They were put aside after he received an inventory of the slave property he had inherited , if Palfrey ever had any doubts about the wickedness of slavery .
cf28.38.0	ref	Yet even if he could get the necessary approval , fourteen of his Negroes could not be manumitted without special permission .
cf28.38.1	pre-adv	Yet fourteen of his Negroes could not be manumitted without special permission , even if he could get the necessary approval .
cf28.39.0	ref	According to state law a slave had to be at least thirty years old before he could be freed .
cf28.39.1	post-adv	Before he could be freed according to state law a slave had to be at least thirty years old .
cf28.45.0	ref	His brothers ' anger caused Palfrey genuine concern , for he had imposed a dual mission upon himself : to free his slaves , and to keep the family from falling apart over the issue .
cf28.45.1	dat-np-np	His brothers ' anger caused genuine concern to Palfrey , for he had imposed a dual mission upon himself : to free his slaves , and to keep the family from falling apart over the issue .
cf28.45.2	post-adv	For he had imposed a dual mission upon himself : to free his slaves , and to keep the family from falling apart over the issue , his brothers ' anger caused Palfrey genuine concern .
cf28.46.0	ref	When Giffen decided to charge him interest on the loan from John Palfrey , Gorham readily assented , vowing that in a matter of dollars and cents , his brothers would never have any cause to complain of him .
cf28.46.1	dat-np-np	When Giffen decided to charge interest on the loan from John Palfrey to him , Gorham readily assented , vowing that in a matter of dollars and cents , his brothers would never have any cause to complain of him .
cf28.46.2	pre-adv	Gorham readily assented , vowing that in a matter of dollars and cents , his brothers would never have any cause to complain of him , when Giffen decided to charge him interest on the loan from John Palfrey .
cf28.48.0	ref	Giffen had already urged him to journey south , if only for a few days to clear up matters .
cf28.48.1	post-adv	Giffen had already urged him , if only for a few days , to journey south to clear up matters .
cf28.50.0	ref	Palfrey told his wife of his intentions for the first time , and left for New Orleans apprehensively invoking a special blessing of Providence that he might be allowed to see his family again .
cf28.50.1	post-adj2	Palfrey told his wife for the first time of his intentions , and left for New Orleans apprehensively invoking a special blessing of Providence that he might be allowed to see his family again .
cf28.52.0	ref	In both cases he desired information about placing the freedmen in homes once they arrived in the North .
cf28.52.1	post-adv	In both cases he desired information about once they arrived in the North placing the freedmen in homes .
cf28.54.0	ref	Mrs. Child , who had once apologized for sending editor Palfrey a book on slavery , now confided that she had helped one of Henry Palfrey 's slaves escape to Canada some years before , but asked him not to advertise the fact in Louisiana .
cf28.54.1	dat-np-np	Mrs. Child , who had once apologized for sending a book on slavery to editor Palfrey , now confided that she had helped one of Henry Palfrey 's slaves escape to Canada some years before , but asked him not to advertise the fact in Louisiana .
cf28.55.0	ref	She agreed to take charge of five or six of the Negroes should Palfrey decide to send them north immediately .
cf28.55.1	post-adv	She agreed should Palfrey decide to send them north immediately to take charge of five or six of the Negroes .
cf28.56.0	ref	At Lexington , Kentucky , Palfrey consulted with Cassius M. Clay on the same subject , but with no apparent result .
cf28.56.1	post-adj2	At Lexington , Kentucky , Palfrey consulted on the same subject with Cassius M. Clay , but with no apparent result .
cf28.62.0	ref	He proceeded with his task bravely -- in his memoirs , at least -- before the `` passions of my neighbors should have time to boil too high '' .
cf28.62.1	post-adv	Before the `` passions of my neighbors should have time to boil too high '' -- he proceeded with his task bravely -- in his memoirs , at least .
cf28.62.2	post-adj3	He proceeded bravely with his task -- in his memoirs , at least -- before the `` passions of my neighbors should have time to boil too high '' .
cf28.62.3	post-adj3	He proceeded in his memoirs , at least bravely -- with his task -- before the `` passions of my neighbors should have time to boil too high '' .
cf28.62.4	post-adj3	He proceeded with his task in his memoirs , at least -- bravely -- before the `` passions of my neighbors should have time to boil too high '' .
cf28.62.5	post-adj3	He proceeded -- in his memoirs , at least -- with his task bravely before the `` passions of my neighbors should have time to boil too high '' .
cf28.62.6	post-adj3	He proceeded bravely -- in his memoirs , at least with his task -- before the `` passions of my neighbors should have time to boil too high '' .
cf28.67.0	ref	All the slaves joined in requesting that they be allowed to delay their departure until the end of the planting season , so that they could get in `` their own little produce '' .
cf28.67.1	post-adv	All the slaves joined in requesting that they be allowed , so that they could get in `` their own little produce '' , to delay their departure until the end of the planting season .
cf28.69.0	ref	William 's threat that under no conditions would he allow `` freedom-conscious '' slaves to mix with his own was not carried out , for the plantation continued in operation as before .
cf28.69.1	post-adv	William 's threat that under no conditions would he allow `` freedom-conscious '' slaves to mix with his own , for the plantation continued in operation as before , was not carried out .
cf28.72.0	ref	In fact , as the time for their departure approached , his solicitousness increased .
cf28.72.1	pre-adv	In fact his solicitousness increased , as the time for their departure approached .
cf28.73.0	ref	Should any slave change his mind and request to leave earlier , Giffen was to provide passage at once .
cf28.73.1	pre-adv	Giffen was to provide passage at once , should any slave change his mind and request to leave earlier .
cf28.74.0	ref	When a sailing date of March , 1845 was finally established , Palfrey made sure that the Negroes would have comfortable quarters in New Orleans and aboard ship .
cf28.74.1	pre-adv	Palfrey made sure that the Negroes would have comfortable quarters in New Orleans and aboard ship , when a sailing date of March , 1845 was finally established .
cf28.77.0	ref	The plantation was sold in January , 1845 , and Palfrey thought the new owner ought to pay his people two months ' wages .
cf28.77.1	dat-np-np	The plantation was sold in January , 1845 , and Palfrey thought the new owner ought to pay two months ' wages to his people .
cf28.79.0	ref	On March 21 , 1845 the bark Bashaw weighed anchor at New Orleans , while on the levee Henry and William Palfrey waved farewell to their father 's former chattels who must have looked back at the receding shore with mingled regret and jubilation .
cf28.79.1	post-adv	While on the levee Henry and William Palfrey waved farewell to their father 's former chattels who must have looked back at the receding shore with mingled regret and jubilation , on March 21 , 1845 the bark Bashaw weighed anchor at New Orleans .
cf28.81.0	ref	Giffen had advised that it would not be too difficult to obtain freedom locally for the old house servants .
cf28.81.1	post-adj2	Giffen had advised that it would not be too difficult to obtain freedom for the old house servants locally .
cf28.85.0	ref	When the Negroes landed at Boston a month later they were , of course , no longer slaves .
cf28.85.1	pre-adv	They were , of course , no longer slaves , when the Negroes landed at Boston a month later .
cf28.85.2	post-adj2	When the Negroes landed a month later at Boston they were , of course , no longer slaves .
cf28.86.0	ref	Slavery was prohibited in Massachusetts by the terms of the constitution of 1780 , which declared `` all men are born free and equal '' .
cf28.86.1	post-adj2	Slavery was prohibited by the terms of the constitution of 1780 , which declared `` all men are born free and equal '' in Massachusetts .
cf28.87.0	ref	Nevertheless , Palfrey arranged a religious ceremony at King 's Chapel to formalize the emancipation .
cf28.87.1	post-adv	To formalize the emancipation nevertheless , Palfrey arranged a religious ceremony at King 's Chapel .
cf28.88.0	ref	An eyewitness recalled how awkward the red-turbaned colored women appeared as they curtseyed in the church doorway , and the diffidence the former slaves displayed while they listened to the few words that declared them free .
cf28.88.1	post-adv	An eyewitness recalled how awkward as they curtseyed in the church doorway the red-turbaned colored women appeared , and the diffidence the former slaves displayed while they listened to the few words that declared them free .
cf28.88.2	post-adv	An eyewitness recalled how awkward the red-turbaned colored women appeared as they curtseyed in the church doorway , and the diffidence while they listened to the few words that declared them free the former slaves displayed .
cf28.89.0	ref	Once the question of emancipation was settled to Palfrey 's satisfaction , he faced a real problem in placing the freedmen in suitable homes as servants .
cf28.89.1	pre-adv	He faced a real problem in placing the freedmen in suitable homes as servants , once the question of emancipation was settled to Palfrey 's satisfaction .
cf28.92.0	ref	This group had been Palfrey 's greatest worry since Anna was in bad health , and her children were too young to work for their keep .
cf28.92.1	post-adv	This group since Anna was in bad health had been Palfrey 's greatest worry , and her children were too young to work for their keep .
cf29.5.0	ref	As we embark upon the sixties we have an opportunity to build a third strong arm , aimed at the development of people , at the fuller realization of their creative human potential , and a better understanding among them '' . -RRB-
cf29.5.1	pre-adv	We have an opportunity to build a third strong arm , aimed at the development of people , at the fuller realization of their creative human potential , and a better understanding among them , as we embark upon the sixties '' . -RRB-
cf29.7.0	ref	Ambassador-at-Large Averell Harriman has returned to the capital with a collection of paintings that include Renoir , Cezanne , Gauguin , Van Gogh , Toulouse-Lautrec , Degas , Matisse , Picasso , and Walt Kuhn .
cf29.7.1	post-adj2	Ambassador-at-Large Averell Harriman has returned with a collection of paintings that include Renoir , Cezanne , Gauguin , Van Gogh , Toulouse-Lautrec , Degas , Matisse , Picasso , and Walt Kuhn to the capital .
cf29.8.0	ref	The Director of the Peace Corps , R. Sargent Shriver , Jr. , a Kennedy brother-in-law , collects heavily among the moderns , including Kenzo Okada and Josef Albers .
cf29.8.1	post-adj2	The Director of the Peace Corps , R. Sargent Shriver , Jr. , a Kennedy brother-in-law , collects among the moderns , including Kenzo Okada and Josef Albers heavily .
cf29.12.0	ref	An inveterate reader of books , he chose while working in Detroit to live in the University community of Ann Arbor , almost forty miles away .
cf29.12.1	post-adv	While working in Detroit an inveterate reader of books , he chose to live in the University community of Ann Arbor , almost forty miles away .
cf29.17.0	ref	-LRB- `` It is always of sorrow to me when I find people who neither know nor understand music '' , he declared not long ago in proposing that White House prizes be awarded for music and art . -RRB-
cf29.17.1	post-adv	-LRB- `` When I find people who neither know nor understand music it is always of sorrow to me '' , he declared not long ago in proposing that White House prizes be awarded for music and art . -RRB-
cf29.17.2	quote	-LRB- `` It is always of sorrow to me when I find people who neither know nor understand music '' , declared he not long ago in proposing that White House prizes be awarded for music and art . -RRB-
cf29.17.3	post-adj2	-LRB- `` It is to me of sorrow always when I find people who neither know nor understand music '' , he declared not long ago in proposing that White House prizes be awarded for music and art . -RRB-
cf29.19.0	ref	-LRB- `` Artists are always at a new frontier '' , she claims .
cf29.19.1	quote	-LRB- `` Artists are always at a new frontier '' , claims she .
cf29.27.0	ref	They arrived in Washington about the same time during the early postwar years : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; Walton , after a wartime stint with Time-Life , to become bureau chief for The New Republic .
cf29.27.1	post-adj3	They arrived about the same time in Washington during the early postwar years : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; Walton , after a wartime stint with Time-Life , to become bureau chief for The New Republic .
cf29.27.2	post-adj3	They arrived during the early postwar years about the same time in Washington : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; Walton , after a wartime stint with Time-Life , to become bureau chief for The New Republic .
cf29.27.3	post-adj3	They arrived in Washington during the early postwar years about the same time : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; Walton , after a wartime stint with Time-Life , to become bureau chief for The New Republic .
cf29.27.4	post-adj3	They arrived during the early postwar years in Washington about the same time : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; Walton , after a wartime stint with Time-Life , to become bureau chief for The New Republic .
cf29.27.5	post-adj3	They arrived about the same time during the early postwar years in Washington : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; Walton , after a wartime stint with Time-Life , to become bureau chief for The New Republic .
cf29.32.0	ref	Walton dropped everything to serve as a district co-ordinator in the hard-fought Wisconsin primary and proved so useful that he was promoted to be liaison officer to critically important New York City .
cf29.32.1	post-adj2	Walton dropped everything to serve in the hard-fought Wisconsin primary as a district co-ordinator and proved so useful that he was promoted to be liaison officer to critically important New York City .
cf29.33.0	ref	Walton , who served as a correspondent with General James Gavin 's paratroopers during the invasion of France , combines the soul of an artist with the lingo of a tough guy .
cf29.33.1	post-adj2	Walton , who served during the invasion of France as a correspondent with General James Gavin 's paratroopers , combines the soul of an artist with the lingo of a tough guy .
cf29.34.0	ref	He provoked outraged editorials when , after a post-Inaugural inspection of the White House with Mrs. Kennedy , he remarked to reporters , `` We just cased the joint to see what was there '' .
cf29.34.1	post-adv	When , after a post-Inaugural inspection of the White House with Mrs. Kennedy , he remarked to reporters , `` We just cased the joint to see what was there '' he provoked outraged editorials .
cf29.40.0	ref	But even while sparring furiously with Republican politicians , he displays a deep and awesome veneration for anyone with cultural attainments .
cf29.40.1	pre-adv	But he displays a deep and awesome veneration for anyone with cultural attainments , even while sparring furiously with Republican politicians .
cf29.40.2	post-adj2	But even while sparring with Republican politicians furiously , he displays a deep and awesome veneration for anyone with cultural attainments .
cf29.43.0	ref	After promoting Frost 's appearance at the Inauguration , he persuaded the poet to return several months later to give a reading to a select audience of Cabinet members , members of Congress , and other Washington notables gathered in the State Department auditorium .
cf29.43.1	dat-np-pp	After promoting Frost 's appearance at the Inauguration , he persuaded the poet to return several months later to give a select audience of Cabinet members , members of Congress , and other Washington notables gathered in the State Department auditorium a reading .
cf29.44.0	ref	The event was so successful that the Interior Secretary plans to serve as impresario for similar ones from time to time , hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment of the Administration .
cf29.44.1	post-adj3	The event was so successful that the Interior Secretary plans to serve for similar ones as impresario from time to time , hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment of the Administration .
cf29.44.2	post-adj3	The event was so successful that the Interior Secretary plans to serve from time to time for similar ones as impresario , hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment of the Administration .
cf29.44.3	post-adj3	The event was so successful that the Interior Secretary plans to serve as impresario from time to time for similar ones , hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment of the Administration .
cf29.44.4	post-adj3	The event was so successful that the Interior Secretary plans to serve from time to time as impresario for similar ones , hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment of the Administration .
cf29.44.5	post-adj3	The event was so successful that the Interior Secretary plans to serve for similar ones from time to time as impresario , hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment of the Administration .
cf29.46.0	ref	One tempest was stirred up last March when Udall announced that an eight-and-a-half-foot bronze statue of William Jennings Bryan , sculpted by the late Gutzon Borglum , would be sent `` on indefinite loan '' to Salem , Illinois , Bryan 's birthplace .
cf29.46.1	post-adv	One tempest when Udall announced that an eight-and-a-half-foot bronze statue of William Jennings Bryan , sculpted by the late Gutzon Borglum , would be sent `` on indefinite loan '' to Salem , Illinois , Bryan 's birthplace was stirred up last March .
cf29.48.0	ref	They dug up a speech he had made two years earlier as a Congressman , decrying the more than two hundred statues , monuments , and memorials which `` dot the Washington landscape as patriotic societies and zealous friends are constantly hatching new plans '' .
cf29.48.1	post-adv	They dug up a speech he had made two years earlier as a Congressman , decrying the more than two hundred statues , monuments , and memorials which `` as patriotic societies and zealous friends are constantly hatching new plans dot the Washington landscape '' .
cf29.48.2	post-adj2	They dug up a speech he had made as a Congressman two years earlier , decrying the more than two hundred statues , monuments , and memorials which `` dot the Washington landscape as patriotic societies and zealous friends are constantly hatching new plans '' .
cf29.49.0	ref	Hoping to cut down on such works , Udall had proposed that a politician be at least fifty years departed before he is memorialized .
cf29.49.1	post-adv	Hoping to cut down on such works , Udall had proposed that before he is memorialized a politician be at least fifty years departed .
cf29.54.0	ref	The hotly debated plan for the capital 's Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial , a circle of huge tablets engraved with his speeches -LRB- and promptly dubbed by one of its critics , `` Instant Stonehenge '' -RRB- , is another of Udall 's headaches , since as supervisor of the National Parks Commission he will share in the responsibility for building it .
cf29.54.1	post-adv	Since as supervisor of the National Parks Commission he will share in the responsibility for building it , the hotly debated plan for the capital 's Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial , a circle of huge tablets engraved with his speeches -LRB- and promptly dubbed by one of its critics , `` Instant Stonehenge '' -RRB- , is another of Udall 's headaches .
cf29.58.0	ref	Ever since the fire of 1812 destroyed the beautiful furniture assembled by President Thomas Jefferson , the White House has collected a hodgepodge of period pieces , few of them authentic or aesthetic .
cf29.58.1	pre-adv	The White House has collected a hodgepodge of period pieces , few of them authentic or aesthetic , ever since the fire of 1812 destroyed the beautiful furniture assembled by President Thomas Jefferson .
cf29.64.0	ref	With its coating of gold radiator paint removed -- a gaucherie of some earlier tenant -- it will now occupy its rightful place in the oval Blue Room on the first floor of the White House .
cf29.64.1	pre-adv	It will now occupy its rightful place in the oval Blue Room on the first floor of the White House with its coating of gold radiator paint removed -- a gaucherie of some earlier tenant .
cf29.66.0	ref	The First Lady appointed a Fine Arts Advisory Committee for the White House , to locate authentic pieces as well as to arrange ways to acquire them .
cf29.66.1	post-adv	To locate authentic pieces as well as to arrange ways to acquire them , the First Lady appointed a Fine Arts Advisory Committee for the White House .
cf29.74.0	ref	And part of a fabulous collection of vermeil hollowware , bequeathed to the White House by the late Mrs. Margaret Thompson Biddle , has been taken out of its locked cases and put on display in the State dining room .
cf29.74.1	post-adj2	And part of a fabulous collection of vermeil hollowware , bequeathed by the late Mrs. Margaret Thompson Biddle to the White House , has been taken out of its locked cases and put on display in the State dining room .
cf29.78.0	ref	While a Senator , Kennedy had unsuccessfully pushed a bill to preserve the Belasco Theater , as well as the Dolley Madison and the Benjamin Taylor houses , all scheduled for razing .
cf29.78.1	pre-adv	Kennedy had unsuccessfully pushed a bill to preserve the Belasco Theater , as well as the Dolley Madison and the Benjamin Taylor houses , all scheduled for razing , while a Senator .
cf29.79.0	ref	What to do about it now that he was President ?
cf29.79.1	post-adj2	What to do now that he was President about it ?
cf29.81.0	ref	Then he called in his friend Walton and turned over the problem to him , with instructions to work out what was best -- provided it did n't pile unnecessary burdens on the President .
cf29.81.1	post-adj2	Then he called in his friend Walton and turned over the problem with instructions to work out what was best -- provided it did n't pile unnecessary burdens on the President , to him .
cf30.3.0	ref	The Dartmouth student does not live in monastic seclusion , as he once did .
cf30.3.1	post-adv	The Dartmouth student , as he once did , does not live in monastic seclusion .
cf30.4.0	ref	But his is still a simple life relatively free of the female presence or influence , and he must go far , even though he may go fast , for sophisticated pleasures .
cf30.4.1	post-adv	But his is still a simple life relatively free of the female presence or influence , and he , even though he may go fast , must go far for sophisticated pleasures .
cf30.5.0	ref	He is still heir to the rare gifts of space and silence , if he chooses to be .
cf30.5.1	post-adv	If he chooses to be , he is still heir to the rare gifts of space and silence .
cf30.7.0	ref	The men 's shops on Hanover 's Main Street compare favorably with those in Princeton and New Haven .
cf30.7.1	post-adj2	The men 's shops on Hanover 's Main Street compare with those in Princeton and New Haven favorably .
cf30.8.0	ref	And the automobiles that stream out of Hanover each weekend , toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke , are no less rakish than those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia .
cf30.8.1	post-adj3	And the automobiles that stream each weekend out of Hanover , toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke , are no less rakish than those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia .
cf30.8.2	post-adj3	And the automobiles that stream toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke each weekend , out of Hanover , are no less rakish than those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia .
cf30.8.3	post-adj3	And the automobiles that stream out of Hanover toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke , each weekend , are no less rakish than those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia .
cf30.8.4	post-adj3	And the automobiles that stream , toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke , out of Hanover each weekend , are no less rakish than those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia .
cf30.8.5	post-adj3	And the automobiles that stream each weekend , toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke out of Hanover , are no less rakish than those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia .
cf30.14.0	ref	Thus , when Dartmouth 's Winter Carnival -- widely recognized as the greatest , wildest , roaringest college weekend anywhere , any time -- was broadcast over a national television hookup , Prexy John Sloan Dickey appeared on the screen in rugged winter garb , topped off by a tam-o'-shanter which he confessed had been acquired from a Smith girl .
cf30.14.1	pre-adv	Thus Prexy John Sloan Dickey appeared on the screen in rugged winter garb , topped off by a tam-o'-shanter which he confessed had been acquired from a Smith girl , when Dartmouth 's Winter Carnival -- widely recognized as the greatest , wildest , roaringest college weekend anywhere , any time -- was broadcast over a national television hookup .
cf30.15.0	ref	President Dickey 's golden retriever , frolicking in the snow at his feet , added to the picture of masculine informality .
cf30.15.1	post-adj2	President Dickey 's golden retriever , frolicking at his feet in the snow , added to the picture of masculine informality .
cf30.16.0	ref	This carefree disdain for `` side '' cropped up again in the same television broadcast .
cf30.16.1	post-adj3	This carefree disdain for `` side '' cropped again up in the same television broadcast .
cf30.16.2	post-adj3	This carefree disdain for `` side '' cropped in the same television broadcast again up .
cf30.16.3	post-adj3	This carefree disdain for `` side '' cropped up in the same television broadcast again .
cf30.16.4	post-adj3	This carefree disdain for `` side '' cropped in the same television broadcast up again .
cf30.16.5	post-adj3	This carefree disdain for `` side '' cropped again in the same television broadcast up .
cf30.18.0	ref	She must have looked temptingly pretty to the dean as he put the crown on her head .
cf30.18.1	post-adv	She must as he put the crown on her head have looked temptingly pretty to the dean .
cf30.29.0	ref	Dartmouth students ski everywhere in winter , starting with their own front door .
cf30.29.1	post-adj2	Dartmouth students ski in winter everywhere , starting with their own front door .
cf30.33.0	ref	Here , at the Ravine Lodge , President Dickey acts as host every year to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails .
cf30.33.1	pre-adj2	At the Ravine Lodge , here , President Dickey acts as host every year to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails .
cf30.33.2	post-adj3	Here , at the Ravine Lodge , President Dickey acts every year as host to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails .
cf30.33.3	post-adj3	Here , at the Ravine Lodge , President Dickey acts to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails every year as host .
cf30.33.4	post-adj3	Here , at the Ravine Lodge , President Dickey acts as host to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails every year .
cf30.33.5	post-adj3	Here , at the Ravine Lodge , President Dickey acts to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails as host every year .
cf30.33.6	post-adj3	Here , at the Ravine Lodge , President Dickey acts every year to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails as host .
cf30.37.0	ref	The club runs regular trips to the cabins , but many of the students prefer to take off in small unofficial groups for a weekend of hunting , fishing , climbing , or skiing .
cf30.37.1	post-adj2	The club runs regular trips to the cabins , but many of the students prefer to take off for a weekend of hunting , fishing , climbing , or skiing in small unofficial groups .
cf30.39.0	ref	There is much to be said for a college that , while happily attuned to the sophisticated Ivies , still gives its students a chance to get up early in the morning and drive along back roads where a glimpse of small game , deer , or even bear is not uncommon .
cf30.39.1	dat-np-np	There is much to be said for a college that , while happily attuned to the sophisticated Ivies , still gives a chance to get up early in the morning and drive along back roads where a glimpse of small game , deer , or even bear is not uncommon to its students .
cf30.39.2	pre-adv	There is much to be said for a college that , still gives its students a chance to get up early in the morning and drive along back roads where a glimpse of small game , deer , or even bear is not uncommon , while happily attuned to the sophisticated Ivies .
cf30.41.0	ref	And on the summit of Mount Washington , where thirty-five degrees below zero is commonplace and the wind velocity has registered higher than anywhere else in the world , there is a kind of wisdom to be found that other men often seek in the Himalayas `` because it is there '' .
cf30.41.1	post-adv	And on the summit of Mount Washington , where thirty-five degrees below zero is commonplace and the wind velocity has registered higher than anywhere else in the world , there is a kind of wisdom to be found that `` because it is there '' other men often seek in the Himalayas .
cf30.44.0	ref	Probably a lawyer once said it best for all time in the Supreme Court of the United States .
cf30.44.1	post-adj3	Probably a lawyer once said it for all time best in the Supreme Court of the United States .
cf30.44.2	post-adj3	Probably a lawyer once said it in the Supreme Court of the United States for all time best .
cf30.44.3	post-adj3	Probably a lawyer once said it best in the Supreme Court of the United States for all time .
cf30.44.4	post-adj3	Probably a lawyer once said it , in the Supreme Court of the United States , best for all time .
cf30.44.5	post-adj3	Probably a lawyer once said it for all time in the Supreme Court of the United States best .
cf30.49.0	ref	The struggle was resolved in 1819 in the Supreme Court in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history .
cf30.49.1	post-adj3	The struggle was resolved in the Supreme Court in 1819 in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history .
cf30.49.2	post-adj3	The struggle was resolved in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history in the Supreme Court in 1819 .
cf30.49.3	post-adj3	The struggle was resolved in 1819 in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history in the Supreme Court .
cf30.49.4	post-adj3	The struggle was resolved in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history in 1819 in the Supreme Court .
cf30.49.5	post-adj3	The struggle was resolved in the Supreme Court in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history in 1819 .
cf30.52.0	ref	In an age of oratory , he was the king of orators , and both he himself and Chief Justice Marshall were bathed in manly tears , as Uncle Dan'l reached his thundering climax : `` It is , sir , as I have said , a small college , and yet there are those who love it . ''
cf30.52.1	post-adv	In an age of oratory , he was the king of orators , and both he himself and Chief Justice Marshall , as Uncle Dan'l reached his thundering climax : `` It is , sir , as I have said , a small college , and yet there are those who love it , were bathed in manly tears . ''
cf30.52.2	post-adv	In an age of oratory , he was the king of orators , and both he himself and Chief Justice Marshall were bathed in manly tears , as Uncle Dan'l reached his thundering climax : `` as I have said , It is , sir a small college , and yet there are those who love it . ''
cf30.53.0	ref	Dartmouth is today still a small college -- and still a private one , thanks to Webster 's eloquence .
cf30.53.1	post-adj2	Dartmouth is still today a small college -- and still a private one , thanks to Webster 's eloquence .
cf30.61.0	ref	A student orator `` produced tears from a great number of the learned '' even before the punch was served .
cf30.61.1	post-adv	'' Even before the punch was served a student orator `` produced tears from a great number of the learned .
cf30.62.0	ref	Then from the branches of a near-by tree an Indian underclassman , disdaining both the platform and the English language , harangued the assemblage in his aboriginal tongue .
cf30.62.1	pre-adj2	From the branches of a near-by tree then an Indian underclassman , disdaining both the platform and the English language , harangued the assemblage in his aboriginal tongue .
cf30.66.0	ref	By the end of the nineteenth century , in 1893 , when the Big Three , Columbia , and Penn were populous centers of learning , Dartmouth graduated only sixty-nine .
cf30.66.1	pre-adj2	In 1893 , by the end of the nineteenth century , when the Big Three , Columbia , and Penn were populous centers of learning , Dartmouth graduated only sixty-nine .
cf30.66.2	pre-adv	By the end of the nineteenth century , in 1893 Dartmouth graduated only sixty-nine , when the Big Three , Columbia , and Penn were populous centers of learning .
cf30.68.0	ref	Then in 1893 Dr. William Jewett Tucker became president and the college 's great awakening began .
cf30.68.1	pre-adj2	In 1893 then Dr. William Jewett Tucker became president and the college 's great awakening began .
cf30.69.0	ref	He transformed Dartmouth from a small New Hampshire institution into a national college .
cf30.69.1	post-adj2	He transformed Dartmouth into a national college from a small New Hampshire institution .
cf30.71.0	ref	And at his last commencement , in that year , Dr. Tucker and Dartmouth were honored by the presence of distinguished academic visitors attesting to the new stature of the college .
cf30.71.1	pre-adj2	And in that year , at his last commencement , Dr. Tucker and Dartmouth were honored by the presence of distinguished academic visitors attesting to the new stature of the college .
cf30.76.0	ref	Only a dozen or so schools send as many as six students , and there are seldom more than fifteen men in any single delegation .
cf30.76.1	post-adj2	Only a dozen or so schools send as many as six students , and there are in any single delegation more than fifteen men seldom .
cf30.79.0	ref	However , three distinguished associated graduate schools offer professional curriculums -- the Dartmouth Medical School -LRB- third oldest in the country and founded in 1797 -RRB- , the Thayer School of Engineering , and the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration .
cf30.79.1	dat-np-np	However , three distinguished associated graduate schools offer the Dartmouth Medical School -LRB- third oldest in the country and founded in 1797 -RRB- , the Thayer School of Engineering , and the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration -- to professional curriculums .
cf30.83.0	ref	The Thayer School offers a year of postgraduate study in somewhat the same way , after a boy wins a B.S. in engineering .
cf30.83.1	post-adv	After a boy wins a B.S. in engineering , the Thayer School offers a year of postgraduate study in somewhat the same way .
cf30.85.0	ref	It is still , however , the junior member of the League , if not in years at least in the catching up it has had to do .
cf30.85.1	post-adj2	It is however , still , the junior member of the League , if not in years at least in the catching up it has had to do .
cf30.87.0	ref	However much football has been over-emphasized , the public likes to measure its collegiate favorites by the scoreboard , so , while Yale need never give its record a thought again since outscoring its opponents 694 to 0 in the season of 1888 , Dartmouth had to wait until its championship team of 1925 for national recognition .
cf30.87.1	dat-np-np	However much football has been over-emphasized , the public likes to measure its collegiate favorites by the scoreboard , so , while Yale need never give a thought to its record again since outscoring its opponents 694 to 0 in the season of 1888 , Dartmouth had to wait until its championship team of 1925 for national recognition .
cf30.87.2	pre-adv	The public likes to measure its collegiate favorites by the scoreboard , however much football has been over-emphasized , so , while Yale need never give its record a thought again since outscoring its opponents 694 to 0 in the season of 1888 , Dartmouth had to wait until its championship team of 1925 for national recognition .
cf30.87.3	pre-adv	However much football has been over-emphasized , the public likes to measure its collegiate favorites by the scoreboard , so , Dartmouth had to wait until its championship team of 1925 for national recognition , while Yale need never give its record a thought again since outscoring its opponents 694 to 0 in the season of 1888 .
cf30.88.0	ref	It has come on with a rush in more significant areas .
cf30.88.1	post-adj3	It has come with a rush on in more significant areas .
cf30.88.2	post-adj3	It has come in more significant areas with a rush on .
cf30.88.3	post-adj3	It has come on in more significant areas with a rush .
cf30.88.4	post-adj3	It has come in more significant areas on with a rush .
cf30.88.5	post-adj3	It has come with a rush in more significant areas on .
cf30.90.0	ref	But Dartmouth preserves its youthful brashness even in its educational attitudes , and , although some of its experiments may still be in the testing stage , they make for lively copy .
cf30.90.1	pre-adv	But Dartmouth preserves its youthful brashness even in its educational attitudes , and , they make for lively copy , although some of its experiments may still be in the testing stage .
cf31.7.0	ref	If she avoided the train and hired a buggy , the stableman might have recognized her .
cf31.7.1	pre-adv	The stableman might have recognized her , if she avoided the train and hired a buggy .
cf31.8.0	ref	If police had checked on her more thoroughly than is indicated , she would be completely eliminated as a suspect .
cf31.8.1	pre-adv	She would be completely eliminated as a suspect , if police had checked on her more thoroughly than is indicated .
cf31.8.2	post-adj2	If police had checked more thoroughly than is indicated on her , she would be completely eliminated as a suspect .
cf31.10.0	ref	His sudden unannounced appearance at the Borden home was strange in that he did not carry an iota of baggage with him , although he clearly intended to stay overnight , if not longer .
cf31.10.1	post-adv	His sudden unannounced appearance at the Borden home was strange in that he , although he clearly intended to stay overnight , if not longer , did not carry an iota of baggage with him .
cf31.11.0	ref	Lizzie stated during the inquest that while her father and uncle were in the sitting room the afternoon before the murders , she had been disturbed by their voices and had closed her door , even though it was a very hot day .
cf31.11.1	post-adv	Lizzie stated during the inquest that while her father and uncle were in the sitting room the afternoon before the murders , she had been disturbed by their voices and , even though it was a very hot day , had closed her door .
cf31.11.2	pre-adv	Lizzie stated during the inquest that she had been disturbed by their voices and had closed her door , even though it was a very hot day , while her father and uncle were in the sitting room the afternoon before the murders .
cf31.14.0	ref	A few years ago , not too long before his death , Phillips revealed in a newspaper story that he had always suspected Morse of the murders .
cf31.14.1	pre-adj2	Not too long before his death , a few years ago , Phillips revealed in a newspaper story that he had always suspected Morse of the murders .
cf31.15.0	ref	He said Morse and Borden had quarreled violently in the house that day , information which must have come from Lizzie .
cf31.15.1	post-adj3	He said Morse and Borden had quarreled in the house violently that day , information which must have come from Lizzie .
cf31.15.2	post-adj3	He said Morse and Borden had quarreled that day in the house violently , information which must have come from Lizzie .
cf31.15.3	post-adj3	He said Morse and Borden had quarreled violently that day in the house , information which must have come from Lizzie .
cf31.15.4	post-adj3	He said Morse and Borden had quarreled , that day , violently in the house , information which must have come from Lizzie .
cf31.15.5	post-adj3	He said Morse and Borden had quarreled in the house that day , violently , information which must have come from Lizzie .
cf31.17.0	ref	The New Bedford Standard-Times has reported Knowlton as saying , long after the trial , that if he only knew what Borden said during his conversation with Morse , he would have convicted `` somebody '' .
cf31.17.1	pre-adv	The New Bedford Standard-Times has reported Knowlton as saying , long after the trial , that he would have convicted `` somebody '' , if he only knew what Borden said during his conversation with Morse .
cf31.25.0	ref	He said he returned from the visit to his niece on the 11:20 streetcar .
cf31.25.1	post-adj2	He said he returned on the 11:20 streetcar from the visit to his niece .
cf31.26.0	ref	The woman in the house where the niece was staying backed up his story and said she left when he did to shop for her dinner .
cf31.26.1	post-adv	The woman in the house where the niece was staying backed up his story and said when he did she left to shop for her dinner .
cf31.29.0	ref	If this woman had delayed until after 11:20 to start her shopping , she would have had little time in which to prepare the substantial meal that was eaten at dinner in those days .
cf31.29.1	pre-adv	She would have had little time in which to prepare the substantial meal that was eaten at dinner in those days , if this woman had delayed until after 11:20 to start her shopping .
cf31.30.0	ref	It is possible that Morse told the woman it was 11:20 , but it could have been earlier , since she did serve dinner on time .
cf31.30.1	post-adv	It is possible that Morse told the woman it was 11:20 , but it could , since she did serve dinner on time , have been earlier .
cf31.34.0	ref	The conductor did recall having priests as passengers and this satisfied police , although the conductor also pointed out that in heavily Catholic Fall River there were priests riding on almost every trip the streetcar made , so Morse 's statement really proved nothing .
cf31.34.1	post-adv	The conductor did recall having priests as passengers and , although the conductor also pointed out that in heavily Catholic Fall River there were priests riding on almost every trip the streetcar made , this satisfied police , so Morse 's statement really proved nothing .
cf31.41.0	ref	Morse testified that while he was having breakfast in the dining room , Mrs. Borden told the servant , `` Bridget , I want you to wash these windows today '' .
cf31.41.1	pre-adv	Morse testified that Mrs. Borden told the servant , `` Bridget , I want you to wash these windows today '' , while he was having breakfast in the dining room .
cf31.45.0	ref	Morse 's knowledge of what Mrs. Borden told Bridget could indicate that he had returned secretly to the house and was hidden there .
cf31.45.1	post-adj2	Morse 's knowledge of what Mrs. Borden told Bridget could indicate that he had returned to the house secretly and was hidden there .
cf31.48.0	ref	The screen door was unlocked for some ten or fifteen minutes while Bridget was sick in the back .
cf31.48.1	post-adv	While Bridget was sick in the back the screen door was unlocked for some ten or fifteen minutes .
cf31.50.0	ref	Morse could have returned openly while Bridget was sick in the back yard and gone up to the room he had occupied .
cf31.50.1	post-adv	Morse could have while Bridget was sick in the back yard returned openly and gone up to the room he had occupied .
cf31.51.0	ref	Mrs. Borden would not have been alarmed if she saw Morse with an ax or hatchet in his hand .
cf31.51.1	post-adv	Mrs. Borden would not have if she saw Morse with an ax or hatchet in his hand been alarmed .
cf31.52.0	ref	He had been to the farm the previous day and he could have said they needed the ax or hatchet at the farm .
cf31.52.1	post-adj2	He had been the previous day to the farm and he could have said they needed the ax or hatchet at the farm .
cf31.53.0	ref	Mrs. Borden would have had no reason to disbelieve him and he could have approached close enough to her to swing before she could cry out .
cf31.53.1	post-adv	Mrs. Borden would have had no reason to disbelieve him and he could have approached close enough to her before she could cry out to swing .
cf31.54.0	ref	He could have left for Weybosset Street after her murder and made it in plenty of time by using the streetcar .
cf31.54.1	post-adj2	He could have left after her murder for Weybosset Street and made it in plenty of time by using the streetcar .
cf31.55.0	ref	If he took an earlier streetcar than the 11:20 on his return , he could have arrived at the Borden house shortly after Mr. Borden came home .
cf31.55.1	post-adv	If he took an earlier streetcar than the 11:20 on his return , he could shortly after Mr. Borden came home have arrived at the Borden house .
cf31.55.2	pre-adv	He could have arrived at the Borden house shortly after Mr. Borden came home , if he took an earlier streetcar than the 11:20 on his return .
cf31.56.0	ref	With Lizzie in the barn , the screen door unlocked and Bridget upstairs in her attic room , he would have had free and easy access to the house .
cf31.56.1	pre-adv	He would have had free and easy access to the house , with Lizzie in the barn , the screen door unlocked and Bridget upstairs in her attic room .
cf31.57.0	ref	With the second murder over , he could have left , hidden the weapon in some vacant lot or an abandoned cistern in the neighborhood .
cf31.57.1	pre-adv	He could have left , hidden the weapon in some vacant lot or an abandoned cistern in the neighborhood , with the second murder over .
cf31.60.0	ref	And for a man who traveled around without any change of clothing , a few more stains on his dark suit may very well have gone unnoticed .
cf31.60.1	post-adj2	And for a man who traveled without any change of clothing around , a few more stains on his dark suit may very well have gone unnoticed .
cf31.64.0	ref	He said he had promised Mrs. Borden to return in time for dinner and that was close to the time when he did turn up at the Borden house .
cf31.64.1	post-adj2	He said he had promised Mrs. Borden to return for dinner in time and that was close to the time when he did turn up at the Borden house .
cf31.65.0	ref	What did Pearson say about Bridget Sullivan as a possible suspect in his trial-book essay ?
cf31.65.1	post-adj2	What did Pearson say in his trial-book essay about Bridget Sullivan as a possible suspect ?
cf31.66.0	ref	He wrote : `` The police soon ceased to look upon either Bridget or Mr. Morse as in possession of guilty knowledge .
cf31.66.1	post-adj2	He wrote : `` The police soon ceased to look as in possession of guilty knowledge upon either Bridget or Mr. Morse .
cf31.70.0	ref	Although Pearson disbelieved almost everything Lizzie said , and read a sinister purpose into almost everything she did , he happily accepted her statement about Bridget as the whole truth .
cf31.70.1	pre-adv	He happily accepted her statement about Bridget as the whole truth , although Pearson disbelieved almost everything Lizzie said , and read a sinister purpose into almost everything she did .
cf31.73.0	ref	This officer had asked Lizzie if she suspected her Uncle Morse , and she replied she did n't think he did it because he left the house before the murders and returned after them .
cf31.73.1	post-adv	This officer had asked Lizzie if she suspected her Uncle Morse , and she replied she because he left the house before the murders and returned after them did n't think he did it .
cf31.74.0	ref	Fleet asked the same question about Bridget , and Lizzie pointed out that as far as she knew Bridget had gone up to her room before her father 's murder and came down when she called her .
cf31.74.1	post-adv	Fleet asked the same question about Bridget , and Lizzie pointed out that as far as she knew Bridget when she called her had gone up to her room before her father 's murder and came down .
cf31.76.0	ref	She told police about the prospective tenant she had heard quarreling with her father some weeks before the murders , but she said she thought he was from out of town because she heard him mention something about talking to his partner .
cf31.76.1	post-adv	She told police about the prospective tenant she had heard quarreling with her father some weeks before the murders , but she said because she heard him mention something about talking to his partner she thought he was from out of town .
cf31.83.0	ref	When I interviewed Kirby , who as a boy picked up pears in the Borden yard , I asked if anybody else in the household besides Lizzie and Morse had been under any suspicion at the time of the murders .
cf31.83.1	pre-adv	I asked if anybody else in the household besides Lizzie and Morse had been under any suspicion at the time of the murders , when I interviewed Kirby , who as a boy picked up pears in the Borden yard .
cf31.86.0	ref	`` Oh , she was just the maid there '' , he replied , waving a hand to indicate how completely unimportant she was .
cf31.86.1	quote	`` Oh , she was just the maid there '' , replied , waving he a hand to indicate how completely unimportant she was .
cf31.89.0	ref	All the officials on the case seem to have been afflicted with a similar myopia as far as Bridget was concerned , although records in police files contain many reports of servants who have murdered their employers .
cf31.89.1	post-adv	Although records in police files contain many reports of servants who have murdered their employers , all the officials on the case seem to have been afflicted with a similar myopia as far as Bridget was concerned .
cf31.89.2	post-adj2	All the officials on the case seem to have been afflicted as far as Bridget was concerned with a similar myopia , although records in police files contain many reports of servants who have murdered their employers .
cf31.91.0	ref	The actions of Bridget should be examined , since she was there and opportunity did exist , if only to establish her innocence .
cf31.91.1	post-adv	The actions of Bridget should , since she was there and opportunity did exist , be examined if only to establish her innocence .
cf31.91.2	post-adv	The actions of Bridget should , if only to establish her innocence , be examined , since she was there and opportunity did exist .
cf31.93.0	ref	The legend as it exists in Fall River today always includes the solemn assurance that Bridget returned to Ireland after the trial with a `` big bundle '' of cash which Lizzie gave her for keeping her mouth shut .
cf31.93.1	post-adj2	The legend as it exists today in Fall River always includes the solemn assurance that Bridget returned to Ireland after the trial with a `` big bundle '' of cash which Lizzie gave her for keeping her mouth shut .
cf31.94.0	ref	The people who believe and retell the legend have apparently never troubled to read the trial testimony and do not know that the maid changed her testimony on several key points , always to the detriment of Lizzie .
cf31.94.1	post-adj2	The people who believe and retell the legend have never apparently troubled to read the trial testimony and do not know that the maid changed her testimony on several key points , always to the detriment of Lizzie .
cf31.95.0	ref	If Bridget did get any bundles of cash , the last person who would have rewarded her for services rendered would have been Lizzie Borden .
cf31.95.1	pre-adv	The last person who would have rewarded her for services rendered would have been Lizzie Borden , if Bridget did get any bundles of cash .
cf31.97.0	ref	She was apparently the pioneer in her family because she had no close relatives in this country at that time .
cf31.97.1	post-adv	Because she had no close relatives in this country at that time she was apparently the pioneer in her family .
cf32.1.0	ref	Her father , James Upton , was the Upton mentioned by Hawthorne in the famous introduction to the Scarlet Letter as one of those who came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor of the port .
cf32.1.1	post-adj3	Her father , James Upton , was the Upton mentioned in the famous introduction to the Scarlet Letter by Hawthorne as one of those who came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor of the port .
cf32.1.2	post-adj3	Her father , James Upton , was the Upton mentioned as one of those who came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor of the port in the famous introduction to the Scarlet Letter by Hawthorne .
cf32.1.3	post-adj3	Her father , James Upton , was the Upton mentioned by Hawthorne as one of those who came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor of the port in the famous introduction to the Scarlet Letter .
cf32.1.4	post-adj3	Her father , James Upton , was the Upton mentioned as one of those who came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor of the port by Hawthorne in the famous introduction to the Scarlet Letter .
cf32.1.5	post-adj3	Her father , James Upton , was the Upton mentioned in the famous introduction to the Scarlet Letter as one of those who came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor of the port by Hawthorne .
cf32.7.0	ref	When she was nine years old , she wrote a description of a store she had visited .
cf32.7.1	pre-adv	She wrote a description of a store she had visited , when she was nine years old .
cf32.10.0	ref	Lucy Upton was graduated from the Salem High School when few colleges , only Oberlin and Elmira , were open to women ; and she had an appetite for learning that could not be denied .
cf32.10.1	post-adv	Lucy Upton when few colleges , only Oberlin and Elmira , were open to women was graduated from the Salem High School ; and she had an appetite for learning that could not be denied .
cf32.15.0	ref	With four younger children at home , Lucy stepped into her mother 's role , and even after the brothers and sisters were grown , she was her father 's comfort and stay until he died in 1879 .
cf32.15.1	post-adv	With four younger children at home , Lucy stepped into her mother 's role , and until he died in 1879 even after the brothers and sisters were grown , she was her father 's comfort and stay .
cf32.15.2	pre-adv	Lucy stepped into her mother 's role , with four younger children at home , and even after the brothers and sisters were grown , she was her father 's comfort and stay until he died in 1879 .
cf32.15.3	pre-adv	With four younger children at home , Lucy stepped into her mother 's role , and she was her father 's comfort and stay until he died in 1879 , even after the brothers and sisters were grown .
cf32.16.0	ref	But even so Lucy could not give up her intellectual pursuits .
cf32.16.1	pre-adj2	Even so but Lucy could not give up her intellectual pursuits .
cf32.17.0	ref	When her brother Winslow became a student at Brown University in 1874 , she wrote him about a course in history he was taking under Professor Diman : `` What is Prof. Diman 's definition of civilization , and take the world through , is its progress ever onward , or does it retrograde at times ?
cf32.17.1	pre-adv	She wrote him about a course in history he was taking under Professor Diman : `` What is Prof. Diman 's definition of civilization , and take the world through , is its progress ever onward , or does it retrograde at times , when her brother Winslow became a student at Brown University in 1874 ?
cf32.18.0	ref	Do you think I might profitably study some of the history you do , perhaps two weeks behind you . ''
cf32.18.1	post-adj2	Do you think I might profitably study some of the history you do , two weeks behind you perhaps . ''
cf32.20.0	ref	Many years later -LRB- on August 3 , 1915 -RRB- , Lucy Upton wrote Winslow 's daughter soon to be graduated from Smith College : `` While I love botany which , after dabbling in for years , I studied according to the methods of that day exactly forty years ago in a summer school , it must be fascinating to take up zoology in the way you are doing .
cf32.20.1	post-adv	While I love botany which , after dabbling in for years , I studied according to the methods of that day exactly forty years ago in a summer school , many years later -LRB- on August 3 , 1915 -RRB- , Lucy Upton wrote Winslow 's daughter soon to be graduated from Smith College : `` it must be fascinating to take up zoology in the way you are doing .
cf32.20.2	pre-adv	Many years later -LRB- on August 3 , 1915 -RRB- , Lucy Upton wrote Winslow 's daughter soon to be graduated from Smith College : `` it must be fascinating to take up zoology in the way you are doing , while I love botany which , after dabbling in for years , I studied according to the methods of that day exactly forty years ago in a summer school .
cf32.25.0	ref	She discussed in her letters to Winslow some of the questions that came to her as she studied alone .
cf32.25.1	post-adv	She discussed in her letters to Winslow some of the questions that as she studied alone came to her .
cf32.27.0	ref	She played chess with him by postcard .
cf32.27.1	post-adj2	She played chess by postcard with him .
cf32.31.0	ref	Winslow had musical talents , as had his father before him .
cf32.31.1	post-adv	As had his father before him , Winslow had musical talents .
cf32.37.0	ref	After her father 's death , Lucy and her youngest sister lived for a few years with Winslow in Washington , D.C .
cf32.37.1	post-adj3	After her father 's death , Lucy and her youngest sister lived with Winslow for a few years in Washington , D.C .
cf32.37.2	post-adj3	After her father 's death , Lucy and her youngest sister lived in Washington , D.C with Winslow for a few years .
cf32.37.3	post-adj3	After her father 's death , Lucy and her youngest sister lived for a few years in Washington , D.C with Winslow .
cf32.37.4	post-adj3	After her father 's death , Lucy and her youngest sister lived in Washington , D.C for a few years with Winslow .
cf32.37.5	post-adj3	After her father 's death , Lucy and her youngest sister lived with Winslow in Washington , D.C for a few years .
cf32.41.0	ref	Winslow , as his daughters Eleanor and Margaret recall , used to characterize her as `` our iron sister '' .
cf32.41.1	pre-adv	Winslow used to characterize her as `` our iron sister '' , as his daughters Eleanor and Margaret recall .
cf32.42.0	ref	There is reason to suppose that Lucy would have made a record as publicly distinguished as her brother had it not been that her mother 's death occurred just as she was about to enter college .
cf32.42.1	post-adv	There is reason to suppose that Lucy would had it not been that her mother 's death occurred just as she was about to enter college have made a record as publicly distinguished as her brother .
cf32.42.2	post-adv	There is reason to suppose that Lucy would have made a record as publicly distinguished as her brother had it not been that just as she was about to enter college her mother 's death occurred .
cf32.44.0	ref	While in Washington , D.C. , Lucy Upton held positions in the U.S. Census Office , and in the Pension Bureau .
cf32.44.1	pre-adv	Lucy Upton held positions in the U.S. Census Office , and in the Pension Bureau , while in Washington , D.C. .
cf32.45.0	ref	They were not sufficiently challenging however , and she resigned in 1887 , to go to Germany with her brother Winslow and his family while he was there on study .
cf32.45.1	post-adv	They were not sufficiently challenging however , and she resigned in 1887 , while he was there on study to go to Germany with her brother Winslow and his family .
cf32.49.0	ref	After correspondence with Miss Packard and to the joy of Miss Packard and Miss Giles , she came to Atlanta , in the fall of 1888 , to help wherever needed , although there was then no money available to pay her a salary .
cf32.49.1	dat-np-np	After correspondence with Miss Packard and to the joy of Miss Packard and Miss Giles , she came to Atlanta , in the fall of 1888 , to help wherever needed , although there was then no money available to pay a salary to her .
cf32.49.2	post-adv	Although there was then no money available to pay her a salary , after correspondence with Miss Packard and to the joy of Miss Packard and Miss Giles , she came to Atlanta , in the fall of 1888 , to help wherever needed .
cf32.49.3	post-adj2	After correspondence with Miss Packard and to the joy of Miss Packard and Miss Giles , she came in the fall of 1888 , to Atlanta , to help wherever needed , although there was then no money available to pay her a salary .
cf32.50.0	ref	She served for a number of years without pay beyond her travel and maintenance .
cf32.50.1	post-adj2	She served without pay beyond her travel and maintenance for a number of years .
cf32.52.0	ref	She drew on all her resources of mind and heart to help them -- to make them at home in the world ; and as graduates gratefully recall , she drew on her purse as well .
cf32.52.1	pre-adv	She drew on all her resources of mind and heart to help them -- to make them at home in the world ; and she drew on her purse as well , as graduates gratefully recall .
cf32.54.0	ref	Under Miss Upton , the work of the year 1909-10 went forward without interruption .
cf32.54.1	post-adj2	Under Miss Upton , the work of the year 1909-10 went without interruption forward .
cf32.55.0	ref	After all , she had come to Spelman Seminary in 1888 , and had been since 1891 except for one year , Associate Principal or Dean .
cf32.55.1	post-adj2	After all , she had come in 1888 to Spelman Seminary , and had been since 1891 except for one year , Associate Principal or Dean .
cf32.61.0	ref	So strenuous it was physically , with its days of horseback riding over rough roads that it seems an amazing feat of endurance for both Miss Packard and Miss Upton .
cf32.61.1	post-adj2	So strenuous it was with its days of horseback riding over rough roads , physically that it seems an amazing feat of endurance for both Miss Packard and Miss Upton .
cf32.63.0	ref	At the Fifteenth Anniversary -LRB- 1896 -RRB- as already quoted , Miss Upton projected with force and eloquence the Spelman of the Future as a college of first rank , with expanding and unlimited horizons .
cf32.63.1	pre-adv	At the Fifteenth Anniversary -LRB- 1896 -RRB- Miss Upton projected with force and eloquence the Spelman of the Future as a college of first rank , with expanding and unlimited horizons , as already quoted .
cf32.63.2	post-adj2	At the Fifteenth Anniversary -LRB- 1896 -RRB- as already quoted , Miss Upton projected as a college of first rank , with expanding and unlimited horizons the Spelman of the Future with force and eloquence .
cf32.64.0	ref	When Dr. Wallace Buttrick , wise in his judgment of people , declined to have the Science Building named for him , he wrote Miss Tapley -LRB- April 7 , 1923 -RRB- `` If you had asked me , I think I would have suggested that you name the building for Miss Upton .
cf32.64.1	post-adv	If you had asked me , when Dr. Wallace Buttrick , wise in his judgment of people , declined to have the Science Building named for him , he wrote Miss Tapley -LRB- April 7 , 1923 -RRB- `` I think I would have suggested that you name the building for Miss Upton .
cf32.64.2	pre-adv	He wrote Miss Tapley -LRB- April 7 , 1923 -RRB- `` If you had asked me , I think I would have suggested that you name the building for Miss Upton , when Dr. Wallace Buttrick , wise in his judgment of people , declined to have the Science Building named for him .
cf32.64.3	pre-adv	When Dr. Wallace Buttrick , wise in his judgment of people , declined to have the Science Building named for him , he wrote Miss Tapley -LRB- April 7 , 1923 -RRB- `` I think I would have suggested that you name the building for Miss Upton , if you had asked me .
cf32.67.0	ref	At the meeting of the Board of Trustees , on March 3 , 1910 , Miss Upton presented the annual report of the President .
cf32.67.1	pre-adj2	On March 3 , 1910 , at the meeting of the Board of Trustees , Miss Upton presented the annual report of the President .
cf32.68.0	ref	She noted that no student had been withdrawn through loss of confidence ; that the enrollment showed an increase of boarding students as was desired ; and that the year 's work had gone forward smoothly .
cf32.68.1	post-adv	She noted that no student had been withdrawn through loss of confidence ; that as was desired the enrollment showed an increase of boarding students ; and that the year 's work had gone forward smoothly .
cf32.70.0	ref	The raising of the $ 25,000 Improvement Fund two days before the time limit expired , and the spontaneous `` praise demonstration '' held afterward on the campus , were reported as events which had brought happiness to Miss Giles .
cf32.70.1	post-adj2	The raising of the $ 25,000 Improvement Fund two days before the time limit expired , and the spontaneous `` praise demonstration '' held on the campus afterward , were reported as events which had brought happiness to Miss Giles .
cf32.70.2	dat-np-pp	The raising of the $ 25,000 Improvement Fund two days before the time limit expired , and the spontaneous `` praise demonstration '' held afterward on the campus , were reported as events which had brought Miss Giles happiness .
cf32.71.0	ref	With the Fund in hand , the debt on the boilers had been paid ; Rockefeller and Packard Halls had been renovated ; walks laid ; and ground had been broken for the superintendent 's home .
cf32.71.1	pre-adv	The debt on the boilers had been paid , with the Fund in hand ; Rockefeller and Packard Halls had been renovated ; walks laid ; and ground had been broken for the superintendent 's home .
cf32.72.0	ref	Miss Upton spoke gratefully of the response of Spelman graduates and Negro friends in helping to raise the Fund , and their continuing efforts to raise money for greatly needed current expenses .
cf32.72.1	post-adj2	Miss Upton spoke of the response of Spelman graduates and Negro friends in helping to raise the Fund , and their continuing efforts to raise money for greatly needed current expenses gratefully .
cf32.73.0	ref	She spoke also with deep thankfulness of the many individuals and agencies whose interest and efforts through the years had made the work so fruitful in results .
cf32.73.1	post-adj2	She spoke with deep thankfulness of the many individuals and agencies whose interest and efforts through the years had made the work so fruitful in results also .
cf32.77.0	ref	The removal of Miss Packard 18 years earlier had caused them great sorrow , but they still had Miss Giles .
cf32.77.1	dat-np-np	The removal of Miss Packard 18 years earlier had caused great sorrow to them , but they still had Miss Giles .
cf32.80.0	ref	Miss Mary Jane Packard , Sophia 's half-sister , became ill in March , 1910 ; and when school closed , she was unable to travel to Massachusetts .
cf32.80.1	pre-adv	Miss Mary Jane Packard , Sophia 's half-sister , became ill in March , 1910 ; and she was unable to travel to Massachusetts , when school closed .
cf32.81.0	ref	She remained in Atlanta through June and July ; she died on August sixth .
cf32.81.1	post-adj2	She remained through June and July in Atlanta ; she died on August sixth .
cf32.82.0	ref	Before coming on a visit to Spelman in 1885 , Miss Mary had been a successful teacher in Worcester , and her position there was held open for her for a considerable period .
cf32.82.1	post-adj2	Before coming in 1885 on a visit to Spelman , Miss Mary had been a successful teacher in Worcester , and her position there was held open for her for a considerable period .
cf32.84.0	ref	She helped with teaching as well as office work for a few years -- the catalogues show that she had classes in geography , rhetoric and bookkeeping .
cf32.84.1	post-adj2	She helped for a few years with teaching as well as office work -- the catalogues show that she had classes in geography , rhetoric and bookkeeping .
cf32.88.0	ref	Miss Giles always used to refer to her as `` Sister '' .
cf32.88.1	post-adj2	Miss Giles always used to refer as `` Sister '' to her .
cf32.89.0	ref	She served as secretary in the Seminary office for 25 years , and was in charge of correspondence , records , and bookkeeping .
cf32.89.1	post-adj3	She served in the Seminary office as secretary for 25 years , and was in charge of correspondence , records , and bookkeeping .
cf32.89.2	post-adj3	She served for 25 years in the Seminary office as secretary , and was in charge of correspondence , records , and bookkeeping .
cf32.89.3	post-adj3	She served as secretary for 25 years in the Seminary office , and was in charge of correspondence , records , and bookkeeping .
cf32.89.4	post-adj3	She served for 25 years as secretary in the Seminary office , and was in charge of correspondence , records , and bookkeeping .
cf32.89.5	post-adj3	She served in the Seminary office for 25 years as secretary , and was in charge of correspondence , records , and bookkeeping .
cf32.92.0	ref	With infinite patience she responded to every call , no matter at what cost to herself , and to her all went , for she was sure to have the needed information or word of cheer .
cf32.92.1	post-adv	With infinite patience she responded to every call , no matter at what cost to herself , and , for she was sure to have the needed information or word of cheer , to her all went .
cf32.92.2	post-adj2	With infinite patience she responded no matter at what cost to herself , to every call , and to her all went , for she was sure to have the needed information or word of cheer .
cg01.4.0	ref	The name presumably derives from the French royal house which never learned and never forgot ; since Bourbon whiskey , though of Kentucky origin , is at least as much favored by liberals in the North as by conservatives in the South .
cg01.4.1	post-adv	Since Bourbon whiskey , though of Kentucky origin , is at least as much favored by liberals in the North as by conservatives in the South the name presumably derives from the French royal house which never learned and never forgot .
cg01.8.0	ref	I write about Northern liberals from considerable personal experience .
cg01.8.1	post-adj2	I write from considerable personal experience about Northern liberals .
cg01.11.0	ref	This is puzzling to an outsider conscious of the classic tradition of liberalism , because it is clear that these Democrats who are left-of-center are at opposite poles from the liberal Jefferson , who held that the best government was the least government .
cg01.11.1	post-adv	This , because it is clear that these Democrats who are left-of-center are at opposite poles from the liberal Jefferson , who held that the best government was the least government , is puzzling to an outsider conscious of the classic tradition of liberalism .
cg01.13.0	ref	When I question them as to what they mean by concepts like liberty and democracy , I find that they fall into two categories : the simpler ones who have simply accepted the shibboleths of their faith without analysis ; and the intelligent , cynical ones who scornfully reply that these things do n't count any more in the world of to-day .
cg01.13.1	pre-adv	I find that they fall into two categories : the simpler ones who have simply accepted the shibboleths of their faith without analysis ; and the intelligent , cynical ones who scornfully reply that these things do n't count any more in the world of to-day , when I question them as to what they mean by concepts like liberty and democracy .
cg01.19.0	ref	Why , in the first place , call himself a liberal if he is against laissez-faire and favors an authoritarian central government with womb-to-tomb controls over everybody ?
cg01.19.1	post-adv	Why , if he is against laissez-faire and favors an authoritarian central government with womb-to-tomb controls over everybody in the first place , call himself a liberal ?
cg01.22.0	ref	I am concerned here , however , with the Northern liberal 's attitude toward the South .
cg01.22.1	post-adj3	I am concerned however , here , with the Northern liberal 's attitude toward the South .
cg01.22.2	post-adj3	I am concerned with the Northern liberal 's attitude toward the South , however , here .
cg01.22.3	post-adj3	I am concerned here , with the Northern liberal 's attitude toward the South , however .
cg01.22.4	post-adj3	I am concerned , with the Northern liberal 's attitude toward the South , here , however .
cg01.22.5	post-adj3	I am concerned however , with the Northern liberal 's attitude toward the South , here .
cg01.31.0	ref	In fact it has caused us to give serious thought to moving our residence south , because it is not easy for the most objective Southerner to sit calmly by when his host is telling a roomful of people that the only way to deal with Southerners who oppose integration is to send in troops and shoot the bastards down .
cg01.31.1	post-adv	In fact it , because it is not easy for the most objective Southerner to sit calmly by when his host is telling a roomful of people that the only way to deal with Southerners who oppose integration is to send in troops and shoot the bastards down , has caused us to give serious thought to moving our residence south .
cg01.31.2	post-adv	In fact it has caused us to give serious thought to moving our residence south , because when his host is telling a roomful of people that the only way to deal with Southerners who oppose integration is to send in troops and shoot the bastards down it is not easy for the most objective Southerner to sit calmly by .
cg01.33.0	ref	But these accounts do not show that Northerners have been subjected to embarrassment or provocation by Yankee-hatred displayed in social gatherings .
cg01.33.1	post-adj2	But these accounts do not show that Northerners have been subjected by Yankee-hatred displayed in social gatherings to embarrassment or provocation .
cg01.35.0	ref	The strong feeling is certainly there ; but there is a leavening of liberalism among college graduates throughout the South , especially among those who studied in the North .
cg01.35.1	post-adj2	The strong feeling is there certainly ; but there is a leavening of liberalism among college graduates throughout the South , especially among those who studied in the North .
cg01.37.0	ref	Also , among the latter a large percentage soon acquire the prevalent Southern attitude on most social problems .
cg01.37.1	pre-adj2	Among the latter , also a large percentage soon acquire the prevalent Southern attitude on most social problems .
cg01.45.0	ref	Since the Supreme Court 's decision of that year this is more doubtful ; and if a poll had been taken immediately following the dispatch of troops to Little Rock I believe the majority would have been for the Old South .
cg01.45.1	pre-adv	Since the Supreme Court 's decision of that year this is more doubtful ; and I believe the majority would have been for the Old South if a poll had been taken immediately following the dispatch of troops to Little Rock .
cg01.46.0	ref	Belief in the traditional way of life persists much more in the older states than in the new ones .
cg01.46.1	post-adj3	Belief in the traditional way of life persists in the older states much more than in the new ones .
cg01.46.2	post-adj3	Belief in the traditional way of life persists than in the new ones in the older states much more .
cg01.46.3	post-adj3	Belief in the traditional way of life persists much more than in the new ones in the older states .
cg01.46.4	post-adj3	Belief in the traditional way of life persists than in the new ones much more in the older states .
cg01.46.5	post-adj3	Belief in the traditional way of life persists in the older states than in the new ones much more .
cg01.47.0	ref	Probably a larger percentage of Virginians and South Carolinians remain unreconstructed than elsewhere , with Georgia , North Carolina , and Alabama following along after them .
cg01.47.1	post-adj2	Probably a larger percentage of Virginians and South Carolinians remain unreconstructed with Georgia , North Carolina , and Alabama following along after them , than elsewhere .
cg01.48.0	ref	Old attitudes are held more tenaciously in the Tidewater than the Piedmont ; so that a line running down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the Old South from the new , but with , of course , important minority enclaves .
cg01.48.1	post-adv	Old attitudes so that a line running down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the Old South from the new , but with , of course , important minority enclaves are held more tenaciously in the Tidewater than the Piedmont .
cg01.48.2	post-adj3	Old attitudes are held in the Tidewater more tenaciously than the Piedmont ; so that a line running down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the Old South from the new , but with , of course , important minority enclaves .
cg01.48.3	post-adj3	Old attitudes are held than the Piedmont in the Tidewater more tenaciously ; so that a line running down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the Old South from the new , but with , of course , important minority enclaves .
cg01.48.4	post-adj3	Old attitudes are held more tenaciously than the Piedmont in the Tidewater ; so that a line running down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the Old South from the new , but with , of course , important minority enclaves .
cg01.48.5	post-adj3	Old attitudes are held than the Piedmont more tenaciously in the Tidewater ; so that a line running down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the Old South from the new , but with , of course , important minority enclaves .
cg01.48.6	post-adj3	Old attitudes are held in the Tidewater than the Piedmont more tenaciously ; so that a line running down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater would roughly divide the Old South from the new , but with , of course , important minority enclaves .
cg01.56.0	ref	All Southerners agree that slavery had to go ; but many historians maintain that except for Northern meddling it would have ended in states like Virginia years before it did .
cg01.56.1	post-adv	All Southerners agree that slavery had to go ; but many historians maintain that except for Northern meddling it would before it did have ended in states like Virginia years .
cg01.56.2	post-adj2	All Southerners agree that slavery had to go ; but many historians maintain that except for Northern meddling it would have ended years before it did in states like Virginia .
cg01.65.0	ref	Or else the North really believes that all Southerners except a few quaint old characters have come around to realizing the errors of their past , and are now at heart sharers of the American Dream , like everybody else .
cg01.65.1	post-adj2	Or else the North really believes that all Southerners except a few quaint old characters have come to realizing the errors of their past around , and are now at heart sharers of the American Dream , like everybody else .
cg01.66.0	ref	If the circumstances are faced frankly it is not reasonable to expect this to be true .
cg01.66.1	pre-adv	It is not reasonable to expect this to be true if the circumstances are faced frankly .
cg01.70.0	ref	This is the only case in modern history of a people of Britannic origin submitting without continued struggle to what they view as foreign domination .
cg01.70.1	post-adj2	This is the only case in modern history of a people of Britannic origin submitting to what they view as foreign domination without continued struggle .
cg01.75.0	ref	Had the situation been reversed , had , for instance , England been the enemy in 1898 because of issues of concern chiefly to New England , there is little doubt that large numbers of Southerners would have happily put on their old Confederate uniforms to fight as allies of Britain .
cg01.75.1	post-adj2	Had the situation been reversed , had , for instance , England been the enemy because of issues of concern chiefly to New England in 1898 , there is little doubt that large numbers of Southerners would have happily put on their old Confederate uniforms to fight as allies of Britain .
cg01.78.0	ref	The two main charges levelled against the Bourbons by liberals is that they are racists and social reactionaries .
cg01.78.1	post-adj2	The two main charges levelled by liberals against the Bourbons is that they are racists and social reactionaries .
cg01.80.0	ref	Whatever their faults , they are not hypocrites .
cg01.80.1	pre-adv	They are not hypocrites , whatever their faults .
cg01.85.0	ref	They believe that if the South had been let alone it would have produced a civilization superior to that of modern America .
cg01.85.1	pre-adv	They believe that it would have produced a civilization superior to that of modern America if the South had been let alone .
cg01.86.0	ref	As it is , they consider that the North is now reaping the fruits of excess egalitarianism , that in spite of its high standard of living the `` American way '' has been proved inferior to the English and Scandinavian ways , although they disapprove of the socialistic features of the latter .
cg01.86.1	post-adv	As it is , they consider that the North is now reaping the fruits of excess egalitarianism , that in spite of its high standard of living the `` American way '' has , although they disapprove of the socialistic features of the latter , been proved inferior to the English and Scandinavian ways .
cg01.86.2	pre-adv	They consider that the North is now reaping the fruits of excess egalitarianism , that in spite of its high standard of living the `` American way '' has been proved inferior to the English and Scandinavian ways , although they disapprove of the socialistic features of the latter , as it is .
cg01.88.0	ref	Their own easier , slower tempo is especially dear to Southerners ; and I have heard many say that they are content to earn a half or a third as much as they could up North because they so much prefer the quieter habits of their home town .
cg01.88.1	post-adv	Their own easier , slower tempo is especially dear to Southerners ; and I have heard many say that because they so much prefer the quieter habits of their home town they are content to earn a half or a third as much as they could up North .
cg02.1.0	ref	In the past , the duties of the state , as Sir Henry Maine noted long ago , were only two in number : internal order and external security .
cg02.1.1	pre-adv	In the past , the duties of the state were only two in number : internal order and external security , as Sir Henry Maine noted long ago .
cg02.10.0	ref	That any sort of duty was owed by his nation to other nations would have astonished a nineteenth-century statesman .
cg02.10.1	post-adj2	That any sort of duty was owed to other nations by his nation would have astonished a nineteenth-century statesman .
cg02.12.0	ref	Thus , to cite but one example , the Pax Britannica of the nineteenth century , whether with the British navy ruling the seas or with the City of London ruling world finance , was strictly national in motivation , however much other nations -LRB- e.g. , the United States -RRB- may have incidentally benefited .
cg02.12.1	post-adv	Thus , to cite but one example , however much other nations -LRB- e.g. , the United States -RRB- may have incidentally benefited , the Pax Britannica of the nineteenth century , whether with the British navy ruling the seas or with the City of London ruling world finance , was strictly national in motivation .
cg02.13.0	ref	At the same time , all suggestions that some sort of societal responsibility existed for the welfare of the people within the territorial state was strongly resisted .
cg02.13.1	post-adj2	At the same time , all suggestions that some sort of societal responsibility existed within the territorial state for the welfare of the people was strongly resisted .
cg02.25.0	ref	Ratified in the Republican Party victory in 1952 , the Positive State is now evidenced by political campaigns being waged not on whether but on how much social legislation there should be .
cg02.25.1	post-adj2	Ratified in 1952 in the Republican Party victory , the Positive State is now evidenced by political campaigns being waged not on whether but on how much social legislation there should be .
cg02.30.0	ref	Nevertheless , it may be helpful to cite one example -- that of employment -- for , as will be shown below , it cuts across both facets of the new concept .
cg02.30.1	pre-adv	Nevertheless , it may be helpful to cite one example -- that of employment -- for , it cuts across both facets of the new concept , as will be shown below .
cg02.31.0	ref	Thirty years ago , while the nation was wallowing in economic depression , the prevailing philosophy of government was to stand aside and allow `` natural forces '' to operate and cure the distress .
cg02.31.1	pre-adv	Thirty years ago the prevailing philosophy of government was to stand aside and allow `` natural forces '' to operate and cure the distress , while the nation was wallowing in economic depression .
cg02.34.0	ref	In 1961 the first important legislative victory of the Kennedy Administration came when the principle of national responsibility for local economic distress won out over a `` state's-responsibility '' proposal -- provision was made for payment for unemployment relief by nation-wide taxation rather than by a levy only on those states afflicted with manpower surplus .
cg02.34.1	post-adv	In 1961 when the principle of national responsibility for local economic distress won out over a `` state's-responsibility '' proposal the first important legislative victory of the Kennedy Administration came -- provision was made for payment for unemployment relief by nation-wide taxation rather than by a levy only on those states afflicted with manpower surplus .
cg02.40.0	ref	Meeting in New Delhi under the auspices of the International Commission of Jurists , a body of lawyers from the free world , the Congress redefined and expanded the traditional Rule of Law to include affirmative governmental duties .
cg02.40.1	post-adj2	Meeting under the auspices of the International Commission of Jurists , a body of lawyers from the free world , in New Delhi the Congress redefined and expanded the traditional Rule of Law to include affirmative governmental duties .
cg02.42.0	ref	The Rule of Law , historically a principle according everyone his `` day in court '' before an impartial tribunal , was broadened substantively by making it a responsibility of government to promote individual welfare .
cg02.42.1	dat-np-np	The Rule of Law , historically a principle according his `` day in court '' before an impartial tribunal to everyone , was broadened substantively by making it a responsibility of government to promote individual welfare .
cg02.42.2	post-adj2	The Rule of Law , historically a principle according everyone his `` day in court '' before an impartial tribunal , was broadened by making it a responsibility of government to promote individual welfare substantively .
cg02.50.0	ref	If internal responsibility suggests acceptance of the socialist ideal of equality , then external responsibility implies adherence to principles of ideological supranationalism .
cg02.50.1	pre-adv	Then external responsibility implies adherence to principles of ideological supranationalism , if internal responsibility suggests acceptance of the socialist ideal of equality .
cg02.53.0	ref	The breakup of the Holy Roman Empire and the downfall of feudalism led , not more than two centuries ago , to the surge of nationalism .
cg02.53.1	post-adj2	The breakup of the Holy Roman Empire and the downfall of feudalism led , to the surge of nationalism , not more than two centuries ago .
cg02.54.0	ref	-LRB- Since the time-span of the nation-state coincides roughly with the separate existence of the United States as an independent entity , it is perhaps natural for Americans to think of the nation as representative of the highest form of order , something permanent and unchanging . -RRB-
cg02.54.1	pre-adv	It is perhaps natural for Americans to think of the nation as representative of the highest form of order , something permanent and unchanging -LRB- since the time-span of the nation-state coincides roughly with the separate existence of the United States as an independent entity . -RRB-
cg02.54.2	post-adj2	-LRB- Since the time-span of the nation-state coincides with the separate existence of the United States as an independent entity roughly , it is perhaps natural for Americans to think of the nation as representative of the highest form of order , something permanent and unchanging . -RRB-
cg02.58.0	ref	Today , as new nations rise from the former colonial empires , nationalism is one of the hurricane forces loose in the world .
cg02.58.1	pre-adv	Today nationalism is one of the hurricane forces loose in the world , as new nations rise from the former colonial empires .
cg02.59.0	ref	Almost febrile in intensity , the principle has become worldwide in application -- unfortunately at the very time that nationalist fervors can wreak greatest harm .
cg02.59.1	post-adj2	Almost febrile in intensity , the principle has become worldwide unfortunately at the very time that nationalist fervors can wreak greatest harm -- in application .
cg02.60.0	ref	Historically , however , the concept is one that has been of marked benefit to the people of the Western civilizational group .
cg02.60.1	pre-adj2	However , historically , the concept is one that has been of marked benefit to the people of the Western civilizational group .
cg02.62.0	ref	Within their confines , moreover , technological and industrial growth has proceeded at an accelerated pace , thus increasing the cornucopia from which material wants can be satisfied .
cg02.62.1	pre-adj2	Moreover , within their confines , technological and industrial growth has proceeded at an accelerated pace , thus increasing the cornucopia from which material wants can be satisfied .
cg02.63.0	ref	While the pattern is uneven , some having gained more than others , nationalism has in fact served the Western peoples well .
cg02.63.1	pre-adv	Nationalism has in fact served the Western peoples well while the pattern is uneven , some having gained more than others .
cg02.67.0	ref	In other words , nationalism worked well enough when it had limited application , both as to geography and as to population ; it becomes a perilous anachronism when adopted on a world-wide basis .
cg02.67.1	post-adv	When it had limited application , both as to geography and as to population in other words , nationalism worked well enough ; it becomes a perilous anachronism when adopted on a world-wide basis .
cg02.71.0	ref	While sovereignty has roots in antiquity , in its present usage it is essentially modern .
cg02.71.1	pre-adv	In its present usage it is essentially modern , while sovereignty has roots in antiquity .
cg02.74.0	ref	To him , law is the command of the sovereign -LRB- the English monarch -RRB- who personifies the power of the nation , while sovereignty is the power to make law -- i.e. , to prevail over internal groups and to be free from the commands of other sovereigns in other nations .
cg02.74.1	post-adv	While sovereignty is the power to make law -- i.e. , to prevail over internal groups and to be free from the commands of other sovereigns in other nations , to him , law is the command of the sovereign -LRB- the English monarch -RRB- who personifies the power of the nation .
cg02.77.0	ref	In fact , however , both principles have always been nebulous and loosely defined .
cg02.77.1	pre-adj2	However , in fact , both principles have always been nebulous and loosely defined .
cg02.79.0	ref	That is particularly true of sovereignty when it is applied to democratic societies , in which `` popular '' sovereignty is said to exist , and in federal nations , in which the jobs of government are split .
cg02.79.1	post-adv	When it is applied to democratic societies , in which `` popular '' sovereignty is said to exist , and in federal nations , in which the jobs of government are split that is particularly true of sovereignty .
cg03.16.0	ref	They know little about their machinery beyond mechanical details .
cg03.16.1	post-adj2	They know little beyond mechanical details about their machinery .
cg03.17.0	ref	Accidental war is so sensitive a subject that most of the people who could become directly involved in one are told just enough so they can perform their portions of incredibly complex tasks .
cg03.17.1	post-adv	Accidental war is so sensitive a subject that most of the people who could become directly involved in one so they can perform their portions of incredibly complex tasks are told just enough .
cg03.19.0	ref	As an Air Force psychiatrist put it : `` You ca n't have dry runs on this one '' .
cg03.19.1	pre-adv	`` You ca n't have dry runs on this one as an Air Force psychiatrist put it '' .
cg03.32.0	ref	Unanimously they believe that the world would become a safer place if more of us -- and more Russians and Communist Chinese , too -- thought about accidental war .
cg03.32.1	post-adv	Unanimously they believe that the world if more of us -- and more Russians and Communist Chinese , too -- thought about accidental war would become a safer place .
cg03.33.0	ref	The first systematic thinking about this Pandora 's box within Pandora 's boxes was done four years ago by Fred Ikle , a frail , meek-mannered Swiss-born sociologist .
cg03.33.1	post-adj2	The first systematic thinking about this Pandora 's box within Pandora 's boxes was done by Fred Ikle , a frail , meek-mannered Swiss-born sociologist four years ago .
cg03.38.0	ref	Its radar screens would register Soviet missiles shortly after they are launched against the United States .
cg03.38.1	post-adv	Its radar screens shortly after they are launched against the United States would register Soviet missiles .
cg03.45.0	ref	And no messages can be transmitted on these circuits until senders and receivers authenticate in advance , by special codes , that the messages actually come from their purported sources .
cg03.45.1	post-adv	And no messages can until senders and receivers authenticate in advance , by special codes , that the messages actually come from their purported sources be transmitted on these circuits .
cg03.56.0	ref	However , the system is designed , ingeniously and hopefully , so that no one man could initiate a thermonuclear war .
cg03.56.1	post-adv	However , the system , so that no one man could initiate a thermonuclear war , is designed , ingeniously and hopefully .
cg03.61.0	ref	All can be connected with the gold circuit from their homes .
cg03.61.1	post-adj2	All can be connected from their homes with the gold circuit .
cg03.66.0	ref	If communications work , his decision would be instantly known in all command posts that would originate the actual go order .
cg03.66.1	pre-adv	His decision would be instantly known in all command posts that would originate the actual go order , if communications work .
cg03.69.0	ref	Let us look in on one of these nerve centers -- SAC at Omaha -- and see what must still happen before a wing of B-52 bombers could drop their .
cg03.69.1	post-adv	Let us look in on one of these nerve centers -- SAC at Omaha -- and see what before a wing of B-52 bombers could drop their must still happen .
cg03.80.0	ref	At least a dozen men , some armed , are never far away from him .
cg03.80.1	post-adj2	At least a dozen men , some armed , are far away from him never .
cg03.86.0	ref	His consoles can give him instant contact with more than seventy bases around the world and with every SAC aircraft .
cg03.86.1	dat-np-np	His consoles can give instant contact with more than seventy bases around the world and with every SAC aircraft to him .
cg03.88.0	ref	-LRB- There are two receivers in case one should be dropped and damaged . -RRB-
cg03.88.1	post-adv	In case one should be dropped and damaged -LRB- there are two receivers . -RRB-
cg03.92.0	ref	The box is internally wired so the door can never be opened without setting off a screeching klaxon -LRB- `` It 's real obnoxious '' -RRB- .
cg03.92.1	post-adv	The box so the door can never be opened without setting off a screeching klaxon -LRB- `` It 's real obnoxious '' -RRB- is internally wired .
cg03.99.0	ref	The pieces must be placed in the context of the prepared messages by Wisman 's staff .
cg03.99.1	post-adj2	The pieces must be placed by Wisman 's staff in the context of the prepared messages .
cg03.101.0	ref	I asked Wisman what would happen if he broke out the go codes and tried to start transmitting one .
cg03.101.1	post-adv	I asked Wisman what if he broke out the go codes and tried to start transmitting one would happen .
cg03.102.0	ref	`` I 'd wind up full of bullet holes '' , he said , and there was no question that he was talking about bullets fired by his coworkers .
cg03.102.1	quote	`` I 'd wind up full of bullet holes '' , said he , and there was no question that he was talking about bullets fired by his coworkers .
cg03.105.0	ref	As Wisman put it , `` They have separate pieces of the pie , and we have the whole pie .
cg03.105.1	pre-adv	`` They have separate pieces of the pie , as Wisman put it , and we have the whole pie .
cg03.106.0	ref	Once we send out the whole pie , they can put their pieces into it .
cg03.106.1	pre-adv	They can put their pieces into it , once we send out the whole pie .
cg03.107.0	ref	Unless we send out the whole pie , their pieces mean nothing '' .
cg03.107.1	pre-adv	Their pieces mean nothing , unless we send out the whole pie '' .
cg03.114.0	ref	Unless all gadgets are properly operated -- and the wires and seals from the handles removed first -- no damage can be done .
cg03.114.1	pre-adv	No damage can be done unless all gadgets are properly operated -- and the wires and seals from the handles removed first .
cg04.4.0	ref	They all swung at the same instant in the same direction .
cg04.4.1	post-adj2	They all swung in the same direction at the same instant .
cg04.5.0	ref	They saw it before I did , even with my binoculars .
cg04.5.1	post-adv	Before I did , even with my binoculars they saw it .
cg04.6.0	ref	It was nothing more than a tiny distant rain squall , a dull gray sheet which reached from a layer of clouds to the earth .
cg04.6.1	post-adj2	It was nothing more than a tiny distant rain squall , a dull gray sheet which reached to the earth from a layer of clouds .
cg04.9.0	ref	The aborigines fastened upon it with a concentration beyond pathos .
cg04.9.1	post-adj2	The aborigines fastened with a concentration beyond pathos upon it .
cg04.10.0	ref	Watching , they waited until the squall thickened and began to move in a long drifting slant across the dry burning land .
cg04.10.1	post-adv	Until the squall thickened and began to move in a long drifting slant across the dry burning land watching , they waited .
cg04.10.2	post-adj2	Watching , they waited until the squall thickened and began to move across the dry burning land in a long drifting slant .
cg04.13.0	ref	They went after the squall as mercilessly as a wolf pack after an abandoned cow .
cg04.13.1	post-adj2	They went as mercilessly as a wolf pack after an abandoned cow after the squall .
cg04.16.0	ref	Occasionally , for no reason that I could see , they would suddenly alter the angle of their trot .
cg04.16.1	pre-adj2	For no reason that I could see , occasionally , they would suddenly alter the angle of their trot .
cg04.38.0	ref	They are huge areas which have been swept by winds for so many centuries that there is no soil left , but only deep bare ridges fifty or sixty yards apart with ravines between them thirty or forty feet deep and the only thing that moves is a scuttling layer of sand .
cg04.38.1	post-adv	They are huge areas which have that there is no soil left , but only deep bare ridges fifty or sixty yards apart with ravines between them thirty or forty feet deep been swept by winds for so many centuries and the only thing that moves is a scuttling layer of sand .
cg04.38.2	post-adj2	They are huge areas which have been swept for so many centuries by winds that there is no soil left , but only deep bare ridges fifty or sixty yards apart with ravines between them thirty or forty feet deep and the only thing that moves is a scuttling layer of sand .
cg04.51.0	ref	They lay , with the birds hopping from branch to branch above them and the bright sky peeping down at them .
cg04.51.1	post-adj3	They lay , with the birds hopping to branch from branch above them and the bright sky peeping down at them .
cg04.51.2	post-adj3	They lay , with the birds hopping above them to branch from branch and the bright sky peeping down at them .
cg04.51.3	post-adj3	They lay , with the birds hopping from branch above them to branch and the bright sky peeping down at them .
cg04.51.4	post-adj3	They lay , with the birds hopping above them from branch to branch and the bright sky peeping down at them .
cg04.51.5	post-adj3	They lay , with the birds hopping to branch above them from branch and the bright sky peeping down at them .
cg04.61.0	ref	Perhaps this is what gives the aborigine his odd air of dignity .
cg04.61.1	dat-np-np	Perhaps this is what gives his odd air of dignity to the aborigine .
cg04.67.0	ref	It was a difficult and ambiguous kind of negotiation , even though the rancher was said to be expert in his knowledge of the aborigines and their language .
cg04.67.1	post-adv	Even though the rancher was said to be expert in his knowledge of the aborigines and their language , it was a difficult and ambiguous kind of negotiation .
cg04.68.0	ref	Finally , however , the arrangements were made and we drove out into the bush in a Land Rover .
cg04.68.1	post-adj2	Finally , however , the arrangements were made and we drove in a Land Rover out into the bush .
cg04.70.0	ref	The rancher went a mile down this road and then , when he reached a big red boulder , swung off the road .
cg04.70.1	post-adv	When he reached a big red boulder , the rancher went a mile down this road and then swung off the road .
cg04.72.0	ref	It took me a moment to realize what was odd about that panel : there was a gimbaled compass welded to it , which rocked gently back and forth as the Land Rover bounced about .
cg04.72.1	dat-np-np	It took a moment to me to realize what was odd about that panel : there was a gimbaled compass welded to it , which rocked gently back and forth as the Land Rover bounced about .
cg04.72.2	post-adv	It took me a moment to realize what was odd about that panel : there was a gimbaled compass welded to it , which as the Land Rover bounced about rocked gently back and forth .
cg04.76.0	ref	`` Once I get out on the flat I do .
cg04.76.1	pre-adv	I do `` once I get out on the flat .
cg04.78.0	ref	But if you do n't know the place like the palm of your hand , you 'd better use a compass and the speedometer .
cg04.78.1	pre-adv	But you 'd better use a compass and the speedometer , if you do n't know the place like the palm of your hand .
cg04.94.0	ref	`` The buggers love shade '' , the rancher said .
cg04.94.1	quote	`` The buggers love shade '' , said the rancher .
cg04.96.0	ref	They 'll move around that rock all day , following the shade .
cg04.96.1	post-adj2	They 'll move all day around that rock , following the shade .
cg04.100.0	ref	He gazed away from us as we approached .
cg04.100.1	post-adv	As we approached he gazed away from us .
cg04.107.0	ref	It was not merely that flies were crawling over his face but his narrowed eyelids did not blink when the flies crawled into his eye sockets .
cg04.107.1	post-adv	It was not merely that flies were crawling over his face but his narrowed eyelids when the flies crawled into his eye sockets did not blink .
cg04.108.0	ref	A fly would crawl down the bulging forehead , into the socket of the eye , walk along the man 's lashes and across the wet surface of the eyeball , and the eye did not blink .
cg04.108.1	post-adj2	A fly would crawl into the socket of the eye , down the bulging forehead , walk along the man 's lashes and across the wet surface of the eyeball , and the eye did not blink .
cg04.109.0	ref	The Australian and I both were wearing insect repellent and were not badly bothered by insects , but my eyes watered as we stood watching the aborigine .
cg04.109.1	post-adv	The Australian and I both were wearing insect repellent and were not badly bothered by insects , but as we stood watching the aborigine my eyes watered .
cg04.112.0	ref	Her long thin arms moved in a slow rhythmical gesture over the family possessions which were placed in front of her .
cg04.112.1	post-adj2	Her long thin arms moved over the family possessions which were placed in front of her in a slow rhythmical gesture .
cg04.114.0	ref	There was also a long wooden spear and a woomera , a spear-throwing device which gives the spear an enormous velocity and high accuracy .
cg04.114.1	dat-np-np	There was also a long wooden spear and a woomera , a spear-throwing device which gives an enormous velocity and high accuracy to the spear .
cg04.116.0	ref	Everything was burnished with sweat and grease so that all of the objects seemed to have been carved from the same material and to be ageless .
cg04.116.1	post-adv	Everything so that all of the objects seemed to have been carved from the same material and to be ageless was burnished with sweat and grease .
cg04.117.0	ref	The two children , both boys , wandered around the Australian and me for a few moments and then returned to their work .
cg04.117.1	post-adj2	The two children , both boys , wandered for a few moments around the Australian and me and then returned to their work .
cg04.118.0	ref	They squatted on their heels with their heads bent far forward , their eyes only a few inches from the ground .
cg04.118.1	post-adv	With their heads bent far forward , their eyes only a few inches from the ground they squatted on their heels .
cg04.119.0	ref	They had located the runway of a colony of ants and as the ants came out of the ground , the boys picked them up , one at a time , and pinched them dead .
cg04.119.1	pre-adv	They had located the runway of a colony of ants and the boys picked them up , one at a time , and pinched them dead , as the ants came out of the ground .
cg04.128.0	ref	They roll at night in ashes to keep warm and their second skin has a light dusty cast to it .
cg04.128.1	post-adj2	They roll in ashes at night to keep warm and their second skin has a light dusty cast to it .
cg04.129.0	ref	In spots such as the elbows and knees the second skin is worn off and I realized the aborigines were much darker than they appeared ; as if the coating of sweat , dirt , and ashes were a cosmetic .
cg04.129.1	post-adv	In spots such as the elbows and knees the second skin is worn off and as if the coating of sweat , dirt , and ashes were a cosmetic I realized the aborigines were much darker than they appeared .
cg04.130.0	ref	The boys had beautiful dark eyes and unlike their father they brushed constantly at the flies and blinked their eyes .
cg04.130.1	post-adj2	The boys had beautiful dark eyes and unlike their father they brushed at the flies constantly and blinked their eyes .
cg04.131.0	ref	`` That smell is something , eh , mate '' ? The Australian asked .
cg04.131.1	quote	`` That smell is something , eh , mate '' ? asked the Australian .
cg04.133.0	ref	At the corroborees , when they get to dancing and sweating , you 'll see them rubbing up against a man who 's supposed to have a specially good smell .
cg04.133.1	pre-adv	At the corroborees you 'll see them rubbing up against a man who 's supposed to have a specially good smell , when they get to dancing and sweating .
cg04.137.0	ref	Idje still stared over our shoulders at the horizon .
cg04.137.1	post-adj2	Idje still stared at the horizon over our shoulders .
cg05.9.0	ref	They think of it as a kind of spooky museum in which they may half see and half imagine the old splendor .
cg05.9.1	post-adj2	They think as a kind of spooky museum in which they may half see and half imagine the old splendor of it .
cg05.12.0	ref	Everyone is ready to grant the Persians their history , but almost no one is willing to acknowledge their present .
cg05.12.1	dat-np-np	Everyone is ready to grant their history to the Persians , but almost no one is willing to acknowledge their present .
cg05.15.0	ref	However , just as all the buildings have not fallen and flowed back to their original mud , so the values which wanted them and saw that they were built have not all disappeared .
cg05.15.1	pre-adj2	So , just as all the buildings have not fallen and flowed back to their original mud , however the values which wanted them and saw that they were built have not all disappeared .
cg05.15.2	pre-adv	However so the values which wanted them and saw that they were built have not all disappeared , just as all the buildings have not fallen and flowed back to their original mud .
cg05.16.0	ref	The values and talents which made the tile and the dome , the rug , the poem and the miniature , continue in certain social institutions which rise above the ordinary life of this city , as the great buildings rise above blank walls and dirty lanes .
cg05.16.1	post-adv	The values and talents which made the tile and the dome , the rug , the poem and the miniature , continue in certain social institutions which , as the great buildings rise above blank walls and dirty lanes , rise above the ordinary life of this city .
cg05.17.0	ref	Often , too , the social institutions are housed in these pavilions and palaces and bridges , for these great structures are not simply `` historical monuments '' ; they are the places where Persians live .
cg05.17.1	pre-adj2	Too , often , the social institutions are housed in these pavilions and palaces and bridges , for these great structures are not simply `` historical monuments '' ; they are the places where Persians live .
cg05.19.0	ref	It takes place as well along the terraces and through the arcades of the Khaju bridge , and also in the gardens of the square .
cg05.19.1	post-adj2	It takes place along the terraces and through the arcades of the Khaju bridge , and also in the gardens of the square as well .
cg05.26.0	ref	I do n't mean a few aesthetes who play about with sensations , like a young prince in a miniature dabbling his hand in a pool .
cg05.26.1	post-adj2	I do n't mean a few aesthetes who play about like a young prince in a miniature dabbling his hand in a pool , with sensations .
cg05.28.0	ref	The men crying love poems in an orchard on any summer 's night are as often as not the lutihaw , mustachioed toughs who spend most of their lives in and out of the local prisons , brothels , and teahouses .
cg05.28.1	post-adj2	The men crying love poems on any summer 's night in an orchard are as often as not the lutihaw , mustachioed toughs who spend most of their lives in and out of the local prisons , brothels , and teahouses .
cg05.34.0	ref	But he knew ; he sniffed the air and licked it on his lip and knew as a vintner knows a vintage .
cg05.34.1	post-adv	But he knew ; he as a vintner knows a vintage sniffed the air and licked it on his lip and knew .
cg05.38.0	ref	There has probably always been a bridge of some sort at the southeastern corner of the city .
cg05.38.1	post-adj2	There has always probably been a bridge of some sort at the southeastern corner of the city .
cg05.43.0	ref	The top story contains more than thirty alcoves separated from each other by spandrels of blue and yellow tile .
cg05.43.1	post-adj2	The top story contains more than thirty alcoves separated by spandrels of blue and yellow tile from each other .
cg05.45.0	ref	Here , in the old days -- when they had come to see the moon or displays of fireworks -- sat the king and his court while priests , soldiers , and other members of the party lounged in the smaller alcoves between .
cg05.45.1	pre-adj2	In the old days -- when they had come to see the moon or displays of fireworks -- here sat the king and his court while priests , soldiers , and other members of the party lounged in the smaller alcoves between .
cg05.48.0	ref	Down through the axis of the bridge there is a long diminishing vista like a visual echo of piers and arches , while the vaults fronting upstream and down frame the sunset and sunrise , the mountains and river pools .
cg05.48.1	post-adv	While the vaults fronting upstream and down frame the sunset and sunrise , the mountains and river pools , down through the axis of the bridge there is a long diminishing vista like a visual echo of piers and arches .
cg05.49.0	ref	Here , on the hottest day , it is cool beneath the stone and fresh from the water flowing in the sluices at the bottom of the vaults .
cg05.49.1	pre-adj2	On the hottest day , here , it is cool beneath the stone and fresh from the water flowing in the sluices at the bottom of the vaults .
cg05.53.0	ref	On spring and summer evenings people leave their shops and houses and walk up through the lanes of the city to the bridge .
cg05.53.1	post-adj2	On spring and summer evenings people leave their shops and houses and walk up to the bridge through the lanes of the city .
cg05.55.0	ref	The bridge itself rises up from the river , light-flared and enormous , like the outdoor set for an epic opera .
cg05.55.1	post-adj2	The bridge itself rises like the outdoor set for an epic opera , light-flared and enormous , up from the river .
cg05.56.0	ref	Crowds press along the terraces , down the steps , in and out of the arcades , massing against it as though it were a fortress under siege .
cg05.56.1	post-adv	Crowds press along the terraces , down the steps , in and out of the arcades , as though it were a fortress under siege massing against it .
cg05.60.0	ref	Above , in the tiled prosceniums of the alcoves , boys sing the ghazals of Hafiz and Saadi , while at the very bottom , in the vaults , the toughs and blades of the city hoot and bang their drums , drink arak , play dice , and dance .
cg05.60.1	pre-adj2	In the tiled prosceniums of the alcoves , above , boys sing the ghazals of Hafiz and Saadi , while at the very bottom , in the vaults , the toughs and blades of the city hoot and bang their drums , drink arak , play dice , and dance .
cg05.60.2	post-adv	While at the very bottom , in the vaults , the toughs and blades of the city hoot and bang their drums , drink arak , play dice , and dance , above , in the tiled prosceniums of the alcoves , boys sing the ghazals of Hafiz and Saadi .
cg05.61.0	ref	Here in an evening Persians enjoy many of the things which are important to them : poetry , water , the moon , a beautiful face .
cg05.61.1	pre-adj2	In an evening here Persians enjoy many of the things which are important to them : poetry , water , the moon , a beautiful face .
cg05.64.0	ref	Nonetheless , they take time out -- much time -- from the game of grab and these new Western experiments to go to the gardens and riverbanks .
cg05.64.1	dat-np-np	Nonetheless , they take -- much time -- from the game of grab and these new Western experiments out to time to go to the gardens and riverbanks .
cg05.65.0	ref	Above all , they will stop in the middle of anything , anywhere , to hear or quote some poetry .
cg05.65.1	post-adj2	Above all , they will stop anywhere , in the middle of anything , to hear or quote some poetry .
cg05.68.0	ref	And it is expressed , at least to their taste , in a perfect form .
cg05.68.1	post-adj2	And it is expressed , in a perfect form , at least to their taste .
cg05.70.0	ref	In most Western cultures today these twins have been sent away to the libraries and museums .
cg05.70.1	pre-adj2	Today in most Western cultures these twins have been sent away to the libraries and museums .
cg05.70.2	post-adj2	In most Western cultures today these twins have been sent to the libraries and museums away .
cg05.72.0	ref	It is perhaps difficult to conceive , but imagine that tonight on London bridge the Teddy boys of the East End will gather to sing Marlowe , Herrick , Shakespeare , and perhaps some lyrics of their own .
cg05.72.1	pre-adj2	It is perhaps difficult to conceive , but imagine that on London bridge tonight the Teddy boys of the East End will gather to sing Marlowe , Herrick , Shakespeare , and perhaps some lyrics of their own .
cg05.75.0	ref	Here in these little rooms -- or stages arched open to the sky and river -- they choose a few lines out of the hundreds they may know and sing them according to one of the modes into which Persian music is divided .
cg05.75.1	pre-adj2	In these little rooms -- or stages arched open to the sky and river -- here they choose a few lines out of the hundreds they may know and sing them according to one of the modes into which Persian music is divided .
cg05.77.0	ref	The singer simply matches the poem to a mode ; for example , the mode of bravery to this anonymous folk poem : `` They brought me news that Spring is in the plains And Ahmad 's blood the crimson tulip stains ; Go , tell his aged mother that her son Fought with a thousand foes , and he was one '' .
cg05.77.1	dat-np-np	The singer simply matches the poem to a mode ; for example , the mode of bravery to this anonymous folk poem : `` They brought news that Spring is in the plains And Ahmad 's blood the crimson tulip stains to me ; Go , tell his aged mother that her son Fought with a thousand foes , and he was one '' .
cg05.78.0	ref	Or the mode of love to this fragment by a recent poet : `` Know ye , fair folk who dwell on earth Or shall hereafter come to birth , That here , with dust upon his eyes , Iraj , the sweet-tongued singer , lies .
cg05.78.1	pre-adj2	Or the mode of love to this fragment by a recent poet : `` Know ye , fair folk who dwell on earth Or shall hereafter come to birth , That with dust upon his eyes , here , Iraj , the sweet-tongued singer , lies .
cg06.1.0	ref	Die Frist ist um , und wiederum verstrichen sind sieben Jahr , the Maestro quoted The Flying Dutchman , as he told of his career and wanderings , explaining that the number seven had significantly recurred in his life several times .
cg06.1.1	post-adv	Die Frist ist um , und wiederum verstrichen sind sieben Jahr , as he told of his career and wanderings , explaining that the number seven had significantly recurred in his life several times , the Maestro quoted The Flying Dutchman .
cg06.3.0	ref	When he added to his Pittsburgh commitments the directorship of the London Philharmonic Orchestra in 1958 , he conducted one hundred fifty concerts within nine months , `` commuting '' between the two cities .
cg06.3.1	pre-adv	He conducted one hundred fifty concerts within nine months , `` commuting '' between the two cities , when he added to his Pittsburgh commitments the directorship of the London Philharmonic Orchestra in 1958 .
cg06.3.2	post-adj2	When he added in 1958 the directorship of the London Philharmonic Orchestra to his Pittsburgh commitments , he conducted one hundred fifty concerts within nine months , `` commuting '' between the two cities .
cg06.5.0	ref	His London contract was rescinded , and now , he explains cheerfully , as a bright smile lightens his intense , mobile face , `` I conduct only one hundred and twenty concerts '' !
cg06.5.1	post-adv	His London contract was rescinded , and , as a bright smile lightens his intense , mobile face , now , he explains cheerfully `` I conduct only one hundred and twenty concerts '' !
cg06.6.0	ref	Our meeting took place in May , 1961 , during one of the Maestro 's stop-overs in New York , before he left for Europe .
cg06.6.1	post-adv	Before he left for Europe , our meeting took place in May , 1961 , during one of the Maestro 's stop-overs in New York .
cg06.6.2	post-adj2	Our meeting took place during one of the Maestro 's stop-overs in New York in May , 1961 , before he left for Europe .
cg06.7.0	ref	As we began to converse in the lounge of his Fifth Avenue hotel , his restlessness and sensitivity to light and sound became immediately apparent .
cg06.7.1	pre-adv	His restlessness and sensitivity to light and sound became immediately apparent , as we began to converse in the lounge of his Fifth Avenue hotel .
cg06.10.0	ref	As he talked about himself , time and again stuffing and dragging on his pipe , Steinberg began to relax and the initial hurried feeling grew faint and was dispelled .
cg06.10.1	pre-adv	Steinberg began to relax , as he talked about himself , time and again stuffing and dragging on his pipe , and the initial hurried feeling grew faint and was dispelled .
cg06.13.0	ref	In his native Cologne , where his mother taught him to play the piano , he was able to read notes before he learned the alphabet .
cg06.13.1	post-adv	Before he learned the alphabet in his native Cologne , where his mother taught him to play the piano , he was able to read notes .
cg06.15.0	ref	When he started school at the age of five-and-a-half , he could not understand why the alphabet begins with the letter A , instead of C , as in the scale .
cg06.15.1	pre-adv	He could not understand why the alphabet begins with the letter A , instead of C , as in the scale , when he started school at the age of five-and-a-half .
cg06.16.0	ref	Because , like many other children , he intensely disliked practicing Czerny Etudes , he composed his own studies .
cg06.16.1	pre-adv	He composed his own studies , because , like many other children , he intensely disliked practicing Czerny Etudes .
cg06.17.0	ref	When he was eight he began violin lessons .
cg06.17.1	pre-adv	He began violin lessons , when he was eight .
cg06.21.0	ref	The musician ran away from school when he was fifteen , but this escapade did not save him from the Gymnasium .
cg06.21.1	post-adv	When he was fifteen the musician ran away from school , but this escapade did not save him from the Gymnasium .
cg06.23.0	ref	His professional career began when he was twenty ; he became Otto Klemperer 's personal assistant at the Cologne Opera , and a year later was promoted to the position of regular conductor .
cg06.23.1	post-adv	When he was twenty his professional career began ; he became Otto Klemperer 's personal assistant at the Cologne Opera , and a year later was promoted to the position of regular conductor .
cg06.28.0	ref	However , when he assumed the duties of a conductor , he relinquished his career as a pianist .
cg06.28.1	pre-adv	However he relinquished his career as a pianist , when he assumed the duties of a conductor .
cg06.32.0	ref	Two years later he became director of the Frankfurt Opera , where he remained until he lost this position in 1933 through the rise of the Hitler regime .
cg06.32.1	post-adv	Two years later he became director of the Frankfurt Opera , where until he lost this position in 1933 through the rise of the Hitler regime he remained .
cg06.32.2	post-adj2	Two years later he became director of the Frankfurt Opera , where he remained until he lost this position through the rise of the Hitler regime in 1933 .
cg06.33.0	ref	During these years the youthful conductor had contributed greatly to the high level of musical life in Germany .
cg06.33.1	post-adj2	During these years the youthful conductor had contributed to the high level of musical life in Germany greatly .
cg06.36.0	ref	At the outset of his career , Steinberg had dedicated himself to the advancement of contemporary music by vowing to do a Schonberg work every year .
cg06.36.1	dat-np-np	At the outset of his career , Steinberg had dedicated himself to the advancement of contemporary music by vowing to do every year to a Schonberg work .
cg06.36.2	post-adj2	At the outset of his career , Steinberg had dedicated himself by vowing to do a Schonberg work every year to the advancement of contemporary music .
cg06.37.0	ref	In Frankfurt , too , he directed the Museum and Opera House concerts which , in addition to the standard repertoire , featured novelties like Erdmann 's Piano Concerto and Mahler 's Sixth Symphony .
cg06.37.1	pre-adj2	Too , in Frankfurt , he directed the Museum and Opera House concerts which , in addition to the standard repertoire , featured novelties like Erdmann 's Piano Concerto and Mahler 's Sixth Symphony .
cg06.39.0	ref	Through the Frankfurt Jewish Kulturbund he began to give sonata recitals in synagogues , with Cellist Emanuel Feuermann .
cg06.39.1	post-adj2	Through the Frankfurt Jewish Kulturbund he began to give sonata recitals with Cellist Emanuel Feuermann , in synagogues .
cg06.40.0	ref	As more and more Jewish musicians lost their jobs with professional organizations Steinberg united them into the Frankfurt Kulturbund Orchestra , which also gave guest performances in other German cities .
cg06.40.1	pre-adv	Steinberg united them into the Frankfurt Kulturbund Orchestra , which also gave guest performances in other German cities as more and more Jewish musicians lost their jobs with professional organizations .
cg06.43.0	ref	In 1938 , at the insistence of Arturo Toscanini , Steinberg left Germany for the United States , by way of Switzerland .
cg06.43.1	pre-adj2	At the insistence of Arturo Toscanini , in 1938 , Steinberg left Germany for the United States , by way of Switzerland .
cg06.43.2	post-adj2	In 1938 , at the insistence of Arturo Toscanini , Steinberg left Germany by way of Switzerland , for the United States .
cg06.44.0	ref	After he had spent the first three years in New York as associate conductor , at Toscanini 's invitation , of the NBC Orchestra , he made numerous guest appearances throughout the United States and Latin America .
cg06.44.1	pre-adv	He made numerous guest appearances throughout the United States and Latin America , after he had spent the first three years in New York as associate conductor , at Toscanini 's invitation , of the NBC Orchestra .
cg06.48.0	ref	In recent years he has traveled widely in Europe , conducting in Italy , France , Austria , and Switzerland .
cg06.48.1	post-adj2	In recent years he has traveled in Europe widely , conducting in Italy , France , Austria , and Switzerland .
cg06.49.0	ref	He returned to Germany for the first time in 1953 , where he has since conducted in Cologne , Frankfurt , and Berlin .
cg06.49.1	post-adj3	He returned for the first time to Germany in 1953 , where he has since conducted in Cologne , Frankfurt , and Berlin .
cg06.49.2	post-adj3	He returned in 1953 for the first time to Germany , where he has since conducted in Cologne , Frankfurt , and Berlin .
cg06.49.3	post-adj3	He returned to Germany in 1953 for the first time , where he has since conducted in Cologne , Frankfurt , and Berlin .
cg06.49.4	post-adj3	He returned , in 1953 , to Germany for the first time where he has since conducted in Cologne , Frankfurt , and Berlin .
cg06.49.5	post-adj3	He returned for the first time in 1953 to Germany , where he has since conducted in Cologne , Frankfurt , and Berlin .
cg06.52.0	ref	Since it is not far from Viareggio , he will visit Puccini 's house , as he never fails to do , to pay his respects to the memory of the composer of La Boheme , which he considers one of Puccini 's masterpieces .
cg06.52.1	post-adv	Since it is not far from Viareggio , he , as he never fails to do , will visit Puccini 's house to pay his respects to the memory of the composer of La Boheme , which he considers one of Puccini 's masterpieces .
cg06.52.2	pre-adv	He will visit Puccini 's house , as he never fails to do , to pay his respects to the memory of the composer of La Boheme , which he considers one of Puccini 's masterpieces , since it is not far from Viareggio .
cg06.53.0	ref	Steinberg spoke with warmth and enthusiasm about Italy : `` Rome is my second home .
cg06.53.1	post-adj2	Steinberg spoke about Italy with warmth and enthusiasm : `` Rome is my second home .
cg06.54.0	ref	I consider it the center of the world and make it a point to be there once a year '' .
cg06.54.1	post-adj2	I consider it the center of the world and make it a point to be once a year there '' .
cg06.56.0	ref	`` Then I return to the United States for engagements at the Hollywood Bowl and in Philadelphia '' , he added .
cg06.56.1	quote	`` Then I return to the United States for engagements at the Hollywood Bowl and in Philadelphia '' , added he .
cg06.56.2	post-adj2	`` Then I return for engagements at the Hollywood Bowl and in Philadelphia to the United States '' , he added .
cg06.61.0	ref	Of course , I shall conduct Mahler and Bruckner works in the coming season , as usual .
cg06.61.1	post-adj2	Of course , I shall conduct Mahler and Bruckner works as usual , in the coming season .
cg06.65.0	ref	Bruckner 's Eighth he refers to as `` my travel symphony '' .
cg06.65.1	post-adj2	Bruckner 's Eighth he refers as `` my travel symphony '' to .
cg06.66.0	ref	He recalled that in California after a critic had attacked him for `` still trying to sell Bruckner to the Americans '' , the public 's response at the next concert was a standing ovation .
cg06.66.1	pre-adv	He recalled that in California the public 's response at the next concert was a standing ovation , after a critic had attacked him for `` still trying to sell Bruckner to the Americans '' .
cg06.68.0	ref	Since he introduces so much modern music , I could not resist asking how he felt about it .
cg06.68.1	pre-adv	I could not resist asking how he felt about it , since he introduces so much modern music .
cg06.74.0	ref	He was not enthusiastic over the newly acquired Claude Lorrain , but reminisced with pleasure over a Poussin exhibit he had been able to see in Paris a year ago .
cg06.74.1	post-adj2	He was not enthusiastic over the newly acquired Claude Lorrain , but reminisced over a Poussin exhibit he had been able to see in Paris a year ago with pleasure .
cg06.77.0	ref	`` As my wife puts it '' , he said , again with a twinkle in his eyes , `` all you know is your music .
cg06.77.1	pre-adv	He said , again with a twinkle in his eyes , `` all you know is your music `` as my wife puts it '' .
cg06.77.2	post-adj2	`` As my wife puts it '' , he said , with a twinkle in his eyes again , `` all you know is your music .
cg06.87.0	ref	Since attack serves to stimulate interest in broadcasts , I added to my opening statement a sentence in which I claimed that German youth seemed to lack the enthusiasm which is a necessary ingredient of anger , and might be classified as uninterested and bored rather than angry .
cg06.87.1	pre-adv	I added to my opening statement a sentence in which I claimed that German youth seemed to lack the enthusiasm which is a necessary ingredient of anger , and might be classified as uninterested and bored rather than angry , since attack serves to stimulate interest in broadcasts .
cg06.91.0	ref	`` But you want a job guaranteed when you return '' , I continued my attack .
cg06.91.1	post-adv	`` But you want when you return a job guaranteed '' , I continued my attack .
cg06.92.0	ref	`` You must have some security '' , said a young clerk .
cg06.92.1	iquote	`` You must have some security '' , a young clerk said .
cg06.93.0	ref	When I mentioned that for my first long voyage I did not even have the money for the return fare , but had trusted to luck that I would earn a sufficient amount , the young people looked at me doubtingly .
cg06.93.1	pre-adv	The young people looked at me doubtingly , when I mentioned that for my first long voyage I did not even have the money for the return fare , but had trusted to luck that I would earn a sufficient amount .
cg06.100.0	ref	Though the four boys and two girls , the youngest nineteen years of age , the oldest twenty-four , came from varying backgrounds and had different professional and personal interests , there was surprising agreement among them .
cg06.100.1	pre-adv	There was surprising agreement among them , though the four boys and two girls , the youngest nineteen years of age , the oldest twenty-four , came from varying backgrounds and had different professional and personal interests .
cg06.101.0	ref	What they wished for most was security ; what they feared most was war or political instability in their own country .
cg06.101.1	post-adj2	What they wished most for was security ; what they feared most was war or political instability in their own country .
cg07.1.0	ref	Once again , as in the days of the Founding Fathers , America faces a stern test .
cg07.1.1	pre-adj2	As in the days of the Founding Fathers , once again , America faces a stern test .
cg07.2.0	ref	That test , as President Kennedy forthrightly depicted it in his State of the Union message , will determine `` whether a nation organized and governed such as ours can endure '' .
cg07.2.1	pre-adv	That test will determine `` whether a nation organized and governed such as ours can endure '' , as President Kennedy forthrightly depicted it in his State of the Union message .
cg07.3.0	ref	It is well then that in this hour both of `` national peril '' and of `` national opportunity '' we can take counsel with the men who made the nation .
cg07.3.1	post-adj2	It is then well that in this hour both of `` national peril '' and of `` national opportunity '' we can take counsel with the men who made the nation .
cg07.6.0	ref	In certain respects , their task was incomparably greater than ours today , for there was nobody before them to show them the way .
cg07.6.1	dat-np-np	In certain respects , their task was incomparably greater than ours today , for there was nobody before them to show the way to them .
cg07.7.0	ref	As Madison commented to Jefferson in 1789 , `` We are in a wilderness without a single footstep to guide us .
cg07.7.1	pre-adv	`` We are in a wilderness without a single footstep to guide us , as Madison commented to Jefferson in 1789 .
cg07.7.2	post-adj2	As Madison commented in 1789 to Jefferson , `` We are in a wilderness without a single footstep to guide us .
cg07.9.0	ref	They thought of themselves , to use Jefferson 's words , as `` the Argonauts '' who had lived in `` the Heroic Age '' .
cg07.9.1	post-adj2	They thought as `` the Argonauts '' who had lived in `` the Heroic Age '' , to use Jefferson 's words , of themselves .
cg07.13.0	ref	Even though in most cases the completion of the definitive editions of their writings is still years off , enough documentation has already been assembled to warrant drawing a new composite profile of the leadership which performed the heroic dual feats of winning American independence and founding a new nation .
cg07.13.1	pre-adv	Enough documentation has already been assembled to warrant drawing a new composite profile of the leadership which performed the heroic dual feats of winning American independence and founding a new nation , even though in most cases the completion of the definitive editions of their writings is still years off .
cg07.13.2	post-adj2	Even though in most cases the completion of the definitive editions of their writings is years off still , enough documentation has already been assembled to warrant drawing a new composite profile of the leadership which performed the heroic dual feats of winning American independence and founding a new nation .
cg07.17.0	ref	The young printer 's apprentice achieved greatness in a half-dozen different fields , as editor and publisher , scientist , inventor , philanthropist and statesman .
cg07.17.1	post-adj2	The young printer 's apprentice achieved greatness as editor and publisher , scientist , inventor , philanthropist and statesman , in a half-dozen different fields .
cg07.27.0	ref	If Franklin was an authentic genius , then Alexander Hamilton , with his exceptional precocity , consuming energy , and high ambition , was a political prodigy .
cg07.27.1	pre-adv	Then Alexander Hamilton , with his exceptional precocity , consuming energy , and high ambition , was a political prodigy , if Franklin was an authentic genius .
cg07.28.0	ref	His revolutionary pamphlets , published when he was only 19 , quickly brought him to the attention of the patriot leaders .
cg07.28.1	post-adv	When he was only 19 his revolutionary pamphlets , published , quickly brought him to the attention of the patriot leaders .
cg07.29.0	ref	Principal author of `` The Federalist '' , he swung New York over from opposition to the Constitution to ratification almost single-handedly .
cg07.29.1	post-adj3	Principal author of `` The Federalist '' , he swung New York to ratification over from opposition to the Constitution almost single-handedly .
cg07.29.2	post-adj3	Principal author of `` The Federalist '' , he swung New York almost single-handedly to ratification over from opposition to the Constitution .
cg07.29.3	post-adj3	Principal author of `` The Federalist '' , he swung New York over from opposition to the Constitution almost single-handedly to ratification .
cg07.29.4	post-adj3	Principal author of `` The Federalist '' , he swung New York , almost single-handedly , over from opposition to the Constitution to ratification .
cg07.29.5	post-adj3	Principal author of `` The Federalist '' , he swung New York to ratification almost single-handedly over from opposition to the Constitution .
cg07.30.0	ref	His collaboration with Washington , begun when he was the general 's aide during the Revolution , was resumed when he entered the first Cabinet as Secretary of the Treasury .
cg07.30.1	post-adv	When he was the general 's aide during the Revolution his collaboration with Washington , begun , was resumed when he entered the first Cabinet as Secretary of the Treasury .
cg07.30.2	post-adv	His collaboration with Washington , begun when he was the general 's aide during the Revolution , when he entered the first Cabinet as Secretary of the Treasury was resumed .
cg07.38.0	ref	Their social status was achieved in some cases by birth , as with Washington , Jefferson and Jay ; in others by business and professional acumen , as with Franklin and Adams , or , in Hamilton 's case , by an influential marriage .
cg07.38.1	post-adj3	Their social status was achieved by birth in some cases , as with Washington , Jefferson and Jay ; in others by business and professional acumen , as with Franklin and Adams , or , in Hamilton 's case , by an influential marriage .
cg07.38.2	post-adj3	Their social status was achieved as with Washington , Jefferson and Jay by birth , in some cases ; in others by business and professional acumen , as with Franklin and Adams , or , in Hamilton 's case , by an influential marriage .
cg07.38.3	post-adj3	Their social status was achieved in some cases as with Washington , Jefferson and Jay , by birth ; in others by business and professional acumen , as with Franklin and Adams , or , in Hamilton 's case , by an influential marriage .
cg07.38.4	post-adj3	Their social status was achieved , as with Washington , Jefferson and Jay , in some cases by birth ; in others by business and professional acumen , as with Franklin and Adams , or , in Hamilton 's case , by an influential marriage .
cg07.38.5	post-adj3	Their social status was achieved by birth , as with Washington , Jefferson and Jay in some cases ; in others by business and professional acumen , as with Franklin and Adams , or , in Hamilton 's case , by an influential marriage .
cg07.39.0	ref	Unlike so many of the power-starved intellectuals in underdeveloped nations of our own day , they commanded both prestige and influence before the Revolution started .
cg07.39.1	post-adv	Before the Revolution started unlike so many of the power-starved intellectuals in underdeveloped nations of our own day , they commanded both prestige and influence .
cg07.49.0	ref	Washington never had a chance to work for an extended stretch at the occupation he loved best , plantation management .
cg07.49.1	post-adj2	Washington never had a chance to work at the occupation he loved best , plantation management for an extended stretch .
cg07.50.0	ref	He served as Commander in Chief during the Revolution without compensation .
cg07.50.1	post-adj3	He served during the Revolution as Commander in Chief without compensation .
cg07.50.2	post-adj3	He served without compensation during the Revolution as Commander in Chief .
cg07.50.3	post-adj3	He served as Commander in Chief without compensation during the Revolution .
cg07.50.4	post-adj3	He served without compensation as Commander in Chief during the Revolution .
cg07.50.5	post-adj3	He served during the Revolution without compensation as Commander in Chief .
cg07.53.0	ref	When the Revolution broke out , he , along with Jefferson and Jay , abandoned his career at the bar , with considerable financial sacrifice .
cg07.53.1	pre-adv	He , along with Jefferson and Jay , abandoned his career at the bar , with considerable financial sacrifice , when the Revolution broke out .
cg07.55.0	ref	While he was handling the multi-million-dollar funding operations of the Government he had to resort to borrowing small sums from friends .
cg07.55.1	pre-adv	He had to resort to borrowing small sums from friends while he was handling the multi-million-dollar funding operations of the Government .
cg07.56.0	ref	`` If you can conveniently let me have twenty dollars '' , he wrote one friend in 1791 when he was Secretary of the Treasury .
cg07.56.1	post-adv	When he was Secretary of the Treasury `` if you can conveniently let me have twenty dollars '' , he wrote one friend in 1791 .
cg07.57.0	ref	To support his large family Hamilton went back to the law after each spell of public service .
cg07.57.1	post-adj2	To support his large family Hamilton went after each spell of public service back to the law .
cg07.58.0	ref	Talleyrand passed his New York law office one night on the way to a party .
cg07.58.1	post-adj2	Talleyrand passed his New York law office on the way to a party one night .
cg07.61.0	ref	`` I have just come from viewing a man who had made the fortune of his country , but now is working all night in order to support his family '' , he reflected .
cg07.61.1	post-adv	`` I have just come from viewing a man who had made the fortune of his country , but in order to support his family now is working all night '' , he reflected .
cg07.61.2	quote	`` I have just come from viewing a man who had made the fortune of his country , but now is working all night in order to support his family '' , reflected he .
cg07.67.0	ref	Yet when , at war 's end , the ex-Tory made the first move to resume correspondence , Jay wrote him from Paris , where he was negotiating the peace settlement : `` As an independent American I considered all who were not for us , and you amongst the rest , as against us , yet be assured that John Jay never ceased to be the friend of Peter Van Schaack '' .
cg07.67.1	pre-adv	Yet Jay wrote him from Paris , where he was negotiating the peace settlement : `` As an independent American I considered all who were not for us , and you amongst the rest , as against us , yet be assured that John Jay never ceased to be the friend of Peter Van Schaack '' when , at war 's end , the ex-Tory made the first move to resume correspondence .
cg07.70.0	ref	`` We have now a national character to establish '' , Washington wrote in 1783 .
cg07.70.1	quote	`` We have now a national character to establish '' , wrote Washington in 1783 .
cg07.78.0	ref	The state 's rights position was formulated by Jefferson and Madison in the Kentucky and Virginia Resolves , but in their later careers as heads of state the two proved themselves better Hamiltonians than Jeffersonians .
cg07.78.1	post-adj2	The state 's rights position was formulated in the Kentucky and Virginia Resolves by Jefferson and Madison , but in their later careers as heads of state the two proved themselves better Hamiltonians than Jeffersonians .
cg07.81.0	ref	When , in 1832 , the South Carolina nullifiers adopted the principle of state interposition which Madison had advanced in his old Virginia Resolve , they elicited no encouragement from that senior statesman .
cg07.81.1	pre-adv	They elicited no encouragement from that senior statesman , when , in 1832 , the South Carolina nullifiers adopted the principle of state interposition which Madison had advanced in his old Virginia Resolve .
cg08.6.0	ref	Those writers known collectively as the `` Southern school '' have received accolades from even those critics least prone to eulogize ; according to many critics , in fact , the South has led the North in literature since the Civil War , both quantitatively and qualitatively .
cg08.6.1	pre-adj2	Those writers known collectively as the `` Southern school '' have received accolades from even those critics least prone to eulogize ; in fact , according to many critics , the South has led the North in literature since the Civil War , both quantitatively and qualitatively .
cg08.6.2	post-adj2	Those writers known as the `` Southern school '' collectively have received accolades from even those critics least prone to eulogize ; according to many critics , in fact , the South has led the North in literature since the Civil War , both quantitatively and qualitatively .
cg08.8.0	ref	It is interesting , however , that despite this strong upsurge in Southern writing , almost none of the writers has forsaken the firmly entrenched concept of the white-suited big-daddy colonel sipping a mint julep as he silently recounts the revenue from the season 's cotton and tobacco crops ; of the stereotyped Negro servants chanting hymns as they plow the fields ; of these and a host of other antiquated legends that deny the South its progressive leaps of the past century .
cg08.8.1	dat-np-np	It is interesting , however , that despite this strong upsurge in Southern writing , almost none of the writers has forsaken the firmly entrenched concept of the white-suited big-daddy colonel sipping a mint julep as he silently recounts the revenue from the season 's cotton and tobacco crops ; of the stereotyped Negro servants chanting hymns as they plow the fields ; of these and a host of other antiquated legends that deny its progressive leaps of the past century to the South .
cg08.8.2	post-adv	It is interesting , however , that despite this strong upsurge in Southern writing , almost none of the writers has forsaken the firmly entrenched concept of as he silently recounts the revenue from the season 's cotton and tobacco crops the white-suited big-daddy colonel sipping a mint julep ; of the stereotyped Negro servants chanting hymns as they plow the fields ; of these and a host of other antiquated legends that deny the South its progressive leaps of the past century .
cg08.8.3	post-adv	It is interesting , however , that despite this strong upsurge in Southern writing , almost none of the writers has forsaken the firmly entrenched concept of the white-suited big-daddy colonel sipping a mint julep as he silently recounts the revenue from the season 's cotton and tobacco crops ; of as they plow the fields the stereotyped Negro servants chanting hymns ; of these and a host of other antiquated legends that deny the South its progressive leaps of the past century .
cg08.13.0	ref	There is a New South emerging , a South losing the folksy traditions of an agrarian society with the rapidity of an avalanche -- especially within recent decades .
cg08.13.1	post-adj2	There is a New South emerging , a South losing the folksy traditions of an agrarian society especially within recent decades -- with the rapidity of an avalanche .
cg08.14.0	ref	As the New South snowballs toward further urbanization , it becomes more and more homogeneous with the North -- a tendency which Willard Thorp terms `` Yankeefication '' , as evidenced in such cities as Charlotte , Birmingham , and Houston .
cg08.14.1	post-adv	As evidenced in such cities as Charlotte , Birmingham , and Houston , as the New South snowballs toward further urbanization , it becomes more and more homogeneous with the North -- a tendency which Willard Thorp terms `` Yankeefication '' .
cg08.14.2	pre-adv	It becomes more and more homogeneous with the North -- a tendency which Willard Thorp terms `` Yankeefication '' , as evidenced in such cities as Charlotte , Birmingham , and Houston , as the New South snowballs toward further urbanization .
cg08.22.0	ref	William Styron , while facing the changing economy with a certain uneasy reluctance , insists he is not to be classified as a Southern writer and yet includes traditional Southern concepts in everything he publishes .
cg08.22.1	pre-adv	William Styron insists he is not to be classified as a Southern writer and yet includes traditional Southern concepts in everything he publishes , while facing the changing economy with a certain uneasy reluctance .
cg08.26.0	ref	Perhaps present writers hypnotically cling to the older order because they consider it useful and reliable through repeated testings over the decades .
cg08.26.1	post-adv	Because they consider it useful and reliable through repeated testings over the decades perhaps present writers hypnotically cling to the older order .
cg08.37.0	ref	He has frequently refused to move from white lunch counters , refused to obey local laws which he considers unjust , while in other cases he has appealed to federal laws .
cg08.37.1	post-adv	He , while in other cases he has appealed to federal laws , has frequently refused to move from white lunch counters , refused to obey local laws which he considers unjust .
cg08.43.0	ref	While there may still be many Faulknerian Lucas Beauchamps scattered through the rural South , such men appear to be a vanishing breed .
cg08.43.1	pre-adv	Such men appear to be a vanishing breed , while there may still be many Faulknerian Lucas Beauchamps scattered through the rural South .
cg08.45.0	ref	Presenting an individualized Negro character , it would seem , is one of the most difficult assignments a Southern writer could tackle ; and the success of such an endeavor is , as suggested above , glaringly rare .
cg08.45.1	post-adv	Presenting an individualized Negro character , it would seem , is one of the most difficult assignments a Southern writer could tackle ; and , as suggested above , the success of such an endeavor is glaringly rare .
cg08.46.0	ref	Just as the Negro situation points up the gradual and abrupt changes affecting Southern life , it also points up the non-representation of urbanism in Southern literature .
cg08.46.1	pre-adv	It also points up the non-representation of urbanism in Southern literature , just as the Negro situation points up the gradual and abrupt changes affecting Southern life .
cg08.50.0	ref	Modern writers , who are supposed to keep their fingers firmly upon the pulse of their subjects , insist upon drawing out this legend , prolonging its burial , when it well deserves a rest after the overexploitation of the past century .
cg08.50.1	post-adv	When it well deserves a rest after the overexploitation of the past century modern writers , who are supposed to keep their fingers firmly upon the pulse of their subjects , insist upon drawing out this legend , prolonging its burial .
cg08.52.0	ref	As John T. Westbrook says in his article , `` Twilight Of Southern Regionalism '' -LRB- Southwest Review , Winter 1957 -RRB- : `` The miasmal mausoleum where an Old South , already too minutely autopsied in prose and poetry , should be left to rest in peace , forever dead and -LRB- let us fervently hope -RRB- forever done with '' .
cg08.52.1	pre-adv	`` The miasmal mausoleum where an Old South , already too minutely autopsied in prose and poetry as John T. Westbrook says in his article , `` Twilight Of Southern Regionalism '' -LRB- Southwest Review , Winter 1957 -RRB- , should be left to rest in peace , forever dead and -LRB- let us fervently hope -RRB- forever done with '' .
cg08.59.0	ref	In the meantime , while the South has been undergoing this phenomenal modernization that is so disappointing to the curious Yankee , Southern writers have certainly done little to reflect and promote their region 's progress .
cg08.59.1	pre-adv	In the meantime Southern writers have certainly done little to reflect and promote their region 's progress , while the South has been undergoing this phenomenal modernization that is so disappointing to the curious Yankee .
cg08.68.0	ref	As his disciples boast , even though his emphasis is elsewhere , Faulkner does show his awareness of the changing order of the South quite keenly , as can be proven by a quick recalling of his Sartoris and Snopes families .
cg08.68.1	post-adv	As his disciples boast , even though his emphasis is elsewhere , Faulkner , as can be proven by a quick recalling of his Sartoris and Snopes families , does show his awareness of the changing order of the South quite keenly .
cg08.68.2	pre-adv	As his disciples boast Faulkner does show his awareness of the changing order of the South quite keenly , as can be proven by a quick recalling of his Sartoris and Snopes families , even though his emphasis is elsewhere .
cg08.69.0	ref	Even two decades ago in Go Down , Moses Faulkner was looking to the more urban future with a glimmer of hope that through its youth and its new way of life the South might be reborn and the curse of slavery erased from its soil .
cg08.69.1	pre-adj2	In Go Down , Moses even two decades ago Faulkner was looking to the more urban future with a glimmer of hope that through its youth and its new way of life the South might be reborn and the curse of slavery erased from its soil .
cg08.69.2	post-adj2	Even two decades ago in Go Down , Moses Faulkner was looking with a glimmer of hope that through its youth and its new way of life the South might be reborn and the curse of slavery erased from its soil to the more urban future .
cg09.2.0	ref	Most avant-garde creators , true to their interest in the self-sufficiency of pure movement , have tended to dress their dancers in simple lines and solid colors -LRB- often black -RRB- and to give them a bare cyclorama for a setting .
cg09.2.1	dat-np-np	Most avant-garde creators , true to their interest in the self-sufficiency of pure movement , have tended to dress their dancers in simple lines and solid colors -LRB- often black -RRB- and to give a bare cyclorama to them for a setting .
cg09.4.0	ref	He has designed a matching backdrop and costumes of points of color on white for Mr. Cunningham 's Summerspace , so that dancers and background merge into a shimmering unity .
cg09.4.1	post-adv	He , so that dancers and background merge into a shimmering unity , has designed a matching backdrop and costumes of points of color on white for Mr. Cunningham 's Summerspace .
cg09.11.0	ref	The depersonalization continued as the dancer was further metamorphosed by the play of lights upon his figure .
cg09.11.1	post-adv	As the dancer was further metamorphosed by the play of lights upon his figure the depersonalization continued .
cg09.14.0	ref	Or , clad from head to toe in fabric stretched over a series of hoops , the performer may well lose his sense of self in being a `` finial '' .
cg09.14.1	post-adj2	Or , clad in fabric stretched over a series of hoops from head to toe , the performer may well lose his sense of self in being a `` finial '' .
cg09.15.0	ref	As the dancer is depersonalized , his accouterments are animized , and the combined elements give birth to a new being .
cg09.15.1	pre-adv	His accouterments are animized , as the dancer is depersonalized , and the combined elements give birth to a new being .
cg09.19.0	ref	Some look deliberately to devices used by creators in the other arts and apply corresponding methods to their own work .
cg09.19.1	post-adj2	Some look to devices used by creators in the other arts deliberately and apply corresponding methods to their own work .
cg09.22.0	ref	The creator trusts his intuition to lead him along a path that has internal validity because it mirrors the reality of his experience .
cg09.22.1	post-adv	The creator trusts his intuition to lead him along a path that because it mirrors the reality of his experience has internal validity .
cg09.29.0	ref	He is still concerned , however , with a personal event .
cg09.29.1	post-adj3	He is however concerned , still , with a personal event .
cg09.29.2	post-adj3	He is with a personal event concerned , however , still .
cg09.29.3	post-adj3	He is still concerned , with a personal event , however .
cg09.29.4	post-adj3	He is , with a personal event , still concerned , however .
cg09.29.5	post-adj3	He is concerned , however , with a personal event still .
cg09.30.0	ref	He accepts the accidents of his brushwork because they provide evidence of the vitality of the experience of creation .
cg09.30.1	post-adv	Because they provide evidence of the vitality of the experience of creation he accepts the accidents of his brushwork .
cg09.32.0	ref	Some painters have less interest in the experience of the moment , with its attendant urgencies and ambiguities , than in looking beyond the flux of particular impressions to a higher , more serene level of truth .
cg09.32.1	post-adj2	Some painters have less interest in the experience of the moment , with its attendant urgencies and ambiguities , than in looking to a higher , more serene level of truth beyond the flux of particular impressions .
cg09.56.0	ref	At one time she felt impelled to make dances that `` moved all over the stage '' , much as Pollock 's paintings move violently over the full extent of the canvas .
cg09.56.1	post-adj2	At one time she felt impelled to make dances that `` moved much as Pollock 's paintings move violently over the full extent of the canvas '' , all over the stage .
cg09.57.0	ref	But her conscious need was to break away from constricting patterns of form , a need to let the experience shape itself .
cg09.57.1	post-adj2	But her conscious need was to break from constricting patterns of form away , a need to let the experience shape itself .
cg09.61.0	ref	A pervading quality of free lyricism and a building from turns close to the ground towards jumps into the air gives the work its central focus .
cg09.61.1	dat-np-np	A pervading quality of free lyricism and a building from turns close to the ground towards jumps into the air gives its central focus to the work .
cg09.64.0	ref	If his dancers are sometimes made to look as if they might be creatures from Mars , this is consistent with his intention of placing them in the orbit of another world , a world in which they are freed of their pedestrian identities .
cg09.64.1	pre-adv	This is consistent with his intention of placing them in the orbit of another world , a world in which they are freed of their pedestrian identities , if his dancers are sometimes made to look as if they might be creatures from Mars .
cg09.70.0	ref	Unconcerned with the practical function of his actions , the dancer is engrossed exclusively in their `` motional content '' .
cg09.70.1	post-adj2	Unconcerned with the practical function of his actions , the dancer is engrossed in their `` motional content '' exclusively .
cg09.71.0	ref	Movements unfold freely because they are uninhibited by emotional bias or purposive drive .
cg09.71.1	post-adv	Because they are uninhibited by emotional bias or purposive drive movements unfold freely .
cg09.73.0	ref	Though he is also concerned with freeing dance from pedestrian modes of activity , Merce Cunningham has selected a very different method for achieving his aim .
cg09.73.1	pre-adv	Merce Cunningham has selected a very different method for achieving his aim , though he is also concerned with freeing dance from pedestrian modes of activity .
cg09.82.0	ref	At one side of the stage a dancer jumps excitedly ; nearby , another sits motionless , while still another is twirling an umbrella .
cg09.82.1	post-adv	At one side of the stage a dancer jumps excitedly ; while still another is twirling an umbrella , nearby , another sits motionless .
cg09.84.0	ref	He lifts her , puts her down , and walks off , neither pleased nor disturbed , as if nothing had happened .
cg09.84.1	post-adv	He , as if nothing had happened , lifts her , puts her down , and walks off , neither pleased nor disturbed .
cg09.85.0	ref	If one dancer slaps another , the victim may do a pirouette , sit down , or offer his assailant a fork and spoon .
cg09.85.1	dat-np-np	If one dancer slaps another , the victim may do a pirouette , sit down , or offer a fork and spoon to his assailant .
cg09.85.2	pre-adv	The victim may do a pirouette , sit down , or offer his assailant a fork and spoon , if one dancer slaps another .
cg09.93.0	ref	The `` approximate '' is important , because even after the order of the work has been established by the chance method , the result is not inviolable .
cg09.93.1	post-adv	Because even after the order of the work has been established by the chance method , the result is not inviolable , the `` approximate '' is important .
cg09.93.2	pre-adv	The `` approximate '' is important , because the result is not inviolable , even after the order of the work has been established by the chance method .
cg09.95.0	ref	If a work is divided into several large segments , a last-minute drawing of random numbers may determine the order of the segments for any particular performance .
cg09.95.1	pre-adv	A last-minute drawing of random numbers may determine the order of the segments for any particular performance , if a work is divided into several large segments .
cg09.96.0	ref	And any sequence can not only change its positions in the work but can even be eliminated from it altogether .
cg09.96.1	post-adj2	And any sequence can not only change its positions in the work but can even be eliminated altogether from it .
cg09.97.0	ref	Mr. Cunningham tries not to cheat the chance method ; he adheres to its dictates as faithfully as he can .
cg09.97.1	post-adj2	Mr. Cunningham tries not to cheat the chance method ; he adheres as faithfully as he can to its dictates .
cg09.100.0	ref	He must rearrange matters so that two performers do not bump into each other .
cg09.100.1	post-adv	He so that two performers do not bump into each other must rearrange matters .
cg09.101.0	ref	He must construct transitions so that a dancer who is told to lie prone one second and to leap wildly the next will have some physical preparation for the leap .
cg09.101.1	post-adv	He so that a dancer who is told to lie prone one second and to leap wildly the next will have some physical preparation for the leap must construct transitions .
cg10.1.0	ref	The North and the South were in greater agreement on sovereignty , through all their dispute about it , than were the Founding Fathers .
cg10.1.1	post-adj2	The North and the South were through all their dispute about it , in greater agreement on sovereignty , than were the Founding Fathers .
cg10.3.0	ref	The people everywhere had grown meanwhile in devotion to basic democratic principles , in understanding of and belief in the federal balance , and in love of their Union .
cg10.3.1	post-adj2	The people everywhere had grown in devotion to basic democratic principles , in understanding of and belief in the federal balance , and in love of their Union meanwhile .
cg10.8.0	ref	And so I would only touch upon it now -LRB- much as I have long wanted to write a book about it -RRB- .
cg10.8.1	post-adj3	And so I would only touch now upon it -LRB- much as I have long wanted to write a book about it -RRB- .
cg10.8.2	post-adj3	And so I would only touch much as I have long wanted to write a book about it now -LRB- upon it -RRB- .
cg10.8.3	post-adj3	And so I would only touch upon it much as I have long wanted to write a book about it -LRB- now -RRB- .
cg10.8.4	post-adj3	And so I would only touch -LRB- much as I have long wanted to write a book about it -RRB- upon it now .
cg10.8.5	post-adj3	And so I would only touch now -LRB- much as I have long wanted to write a book about it upon it -RRB- .
cg10.9.0	ref	I think it is essential , however , to pinpoint here the difference between the two concepts of sovereignty that went to war in 1861 -- if only to see better how imperative is our need today to clarify completely our far worse confusion on this subject .
cg10.9.1	post-adv	I think it is essential , however -- if only to see better how imperative is our need today to clarify completely our far worse confusion on this subject -- to pinpoint here the difference between the two concepts of sovereignty that went to war in 1861 .
cg10.13.0	ref	The champions of the Union maintained that the Constitution had formed , fundamentally , the united people of America , that it was a compact among sovereign citizens rather than states , and that therefore the states had no right to secede , though the citizens could .
cg10.13.1	post-adv	The champions of the Union maintained that the Constitution had formed , fundamentally , the united people of America , that it was a compact among sovereign citizens rather than states , and that , though the citizens could , therefore the states had no right to secede .
cg10.14.0	ref	Writing to Speed on August 24 , 1855 , Lincoln made the latter point clear .
cg10.14.1	post-adj2	Writing on August 24 , 1855 to Speed , Lincoln made the latter point clear .
cg10.18.0	ref	When the Know-nothings get control , it will read , All men are created equal except Negroes and foreigners and Catholics .
cg10.18.1	pre-adv	It will read , All men are created equal except Negroes and foreigners and Catholics , when the Know-nothings get control .
cg10.19.0	ref	When it comes to this , I shall prefer emigrating to some country where they make no pretence of loving liberty -- to Russia , for instance , where despotism can be taken pure , without the base alloy of hypocrisy '' -LRB- His emphasis -RRB- .
cg10.19.1	pre-adv	I shall prefer emigrating to some country where they make no pretence of loving liberty -- to Russia , for instance , where despotism can be taken pure , without the base alloy of hypocrisy , when it comes to this '' -LRB- His emphasis -RRB- .
cg10.20.0	ref	When the Southern States exercised their `` right to secede '' , they formed what they officially styled `` The Confederate States of America '' .
cg10.20.1	pre-adv	They formed what they officially styled `` The Confederate States of America '' , when the Southern States exercised their `` right to secede '' .
cg10.21.0	ref	Dictionaries , as we have seen , still cite this government , along with the Articles of Confederation of 1781 , as an example of a confederacy .
cg10.21.1	pre-adv	Dictionaries still cite this government , along with the Articles of Confederation of 1781 , as an example of a confederacy , as we have seen .
cg10.21.2	post-adj2	Dictionaries , as we have seen , still cite this government , as an example of a confederacy , along with the Articles of Confederation of 1781 .
cg10.24.0	ref	It operated on , by and for the people individually just as did the Federal Constitution .
cg10.24.1	post-adv	Just as did the Federal Constitution it operated on , by and for the people individually .
cg10.28.0	ref	But though each of its members had asserted this right against the Union , the final Constitution which the Confederacy signed on March 11 -- nearly a month before hostilities began -- included no explicit provision authorizing a state to secede .
cg10.28.1	pre-adv	But the final Constitution which the Confederacy signed on March 11 -- nearly a month before hostilities began -- included no explicit provision authorizing a state to secede , though each of its members had asserted this right against the Union .
cg10.31.0	ref	The Constitution of the Southern `` Confederation '' differed from that of the Federal Union only in two important respects : It openly , defiantly , recognized slavery -- an institution which the Southerners of 1787 , even though they continued it , found so impossible to reconcile with freedom that they carefully avoided mentioning the word in the Federal Constitution .
cg10.31.1	pre-adv	The Constitution of the Southern `` Confederation '' differed from that of the Federal Union only in two important respects : It openly , defiantly , recognized slavery -- an institution which the Southerners of 1787 found so impossible to reconcile with freedom that they carefully avoided mentioning the word in the Federal Constitution , even though they continued it .
cg10.31.2	post-adj2	The Constitution of the Southern `` Confederation '' differed only in two important respects from that of the Federal Union : It openly , defiantly , recognized slavery -- an institution which the Southerners of 1787 , even though they continued it , found so impossible to reconcile with freedom that they carefully avoided mentioning the word in the Federal Constitution .
cg10.32.0	ref	They recognized that slavery was a moral issue and not merely an economic interest , and that to recognize it explicitly in their Constitution would be in explosive contradiction to the concept of sovereignty they had set forth in the Declaration of 1776 that `` all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights , that among them are life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness . ''
cg10.32.1	post-adj2	They recognized that slavery was a moral issue and not merely an economic interest , and that to recognize it in their Constitution explicitly would be in explosive contradiction to the concept of sovereignty they had set forth in the Declaration of 1776 that `` all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights , that among them are life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness . ''
cg10.36.0	ref	The one of 1861 made clear that in making their government the people were acting through their states , whereas the Preamble of 1787-89 expressed , as clearly as language can , the opposite concept , that they were acting directly as citizens .
cg10.36.1	post-adv	Whereas the Preamble of 1787-89 expressed , as clearly as language can , the opposite concept , that they were acting directly as citizens , the one of 1861 made clear that in making their government the people were acting through their states .
cg10.37.0	ref	Here are the two Preambles : Federal Constitution , 1789 `` we the People of the United States , in order to form a more perfect Union , establish Justice , insure domestic Tranquility , provide for the common Defence , promote the general Welfare , and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity , do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America '' .
cg10.37.1	pre-adv	Here are the two Preambles : Federal Constitution , 1789 `` we the People of the United States do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America , in order to form a more perfect Union , establish Justice , insure domestic Tranquility , provide for the common Defence , promote the general Welfare , and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity '' .
cg10.38.0	ref	Confederate Constitution , 1861 `` We the people of the Confederate States , each state acting in its sovereign and independent character , in order to form a permanent federal government , establish justice , insure domestic tranquility , and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity -- invoking the favor and the guidance of Almighty God -- do ordain and establish this Constitution for the Confederate States of America '' .
cg10.38.1	pre-adv	Confederate Constitution , 1861 `` We the people of the Confederate States , each state acting in its sovereign and independent character invoking the favor and the guidance of Almighty God -- do ordain and establish this Constitution for the Confederate States of America , in order to form a permanent federal government , establish justice , insure domestic tranquility , and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity '' .
cg10.40.0	ref	But though the Southern States , when drafting a constitution to unite themselves , narrowed the difference to this fine point by omitting to assert the right to secede , the fact remained that by seceding from the Union they had already acted on the concept that it was composed primarily of sovereign states .
cg10.40.1	pre-adv	But the fact remained that by seceding from the Union they had already acted on the concept that it was composed primarily of sovereign states , though the Southern States , when drafting a constitution to unite themselves , narrowed the difference to this fine point by omitting to assert the right to secede .
cg10.40.2	pre-adv	But though the Southern States narrowed the difference to this fine point by omitting to assert the right to secede , when drafting a constitution to unite themselves , the fact remained that by seceding from the Union they had already acted on the concept that it was composed primarily of sovereign states .
cg10.40.3	post-adj2	But though the Southern States , when drafting a constitution to unite themselves , narrowed the difference by omitting to assert the right to secede to this fine point , the fact remained that by seceding from the Union they had already acted on the concept that it was composed primarily of sovereign states .
cg10.41.0	ref	If the Union conceded this to them , the same right must be conceded to each remaining state whenever it saw fit to secede : This would destroy the federal balance between it and the states , and in the end sacrifice to the sovereignty of the states all the liberty the citizens had gained by their Union .
cg10.41.1	post-adv	If the Union conceded this to them , the same right must whenever it saw fit to secede be conceded to each remaining state : This would destroy the federal balance between it and the states , and in the end sacrifice to the sovereignty of the states all the liberty the citizens had gained by their Union .
cg10.41.2	pre-adv	The same right must be conceded to each remaining state whenever it saw fit to secede , if the Union conceded this to them : This would destroy the federal balance between it and the states , and in the end sacrifice to the sovereignty of the states all the liberty the citizens had gained by their Union .
cg10.42.0	ref	Lincoln saw that the act of secession made the issue for the Union a vital one : Whether it was a Union of sovereign citizens that should continue to live , or an association of sovereign states that must fall prey either to `` anarchy or despotism '' .
cg10.42.1	dat-np-np	Lincoln saw that the act of secession made a vital one for the Union to the issue : Whether it was a Union of sovereign citizens that should continue to live , or an association of sovereign states that must fall prey either to `` anarchy or despotism '' .
cg10.42.2	post-adv	Lincoln saw that whether it was a Union of sovereign citizens that should continue to live , or an association of sovereign states that must fall prey either to `` anarchy or despotism '' the act of secession made the issue for the Union a vital one .
cg10.44.0	ref	Though his election was interpreted by many Southerners as the forerunner of a dangerous shift in the federal balance in favor of the Union , Lincoln himself proposed no such change in the rights the Constitution gave the states .
cg10.44.1	pre-adv	Lincoln himself proposed no such change in the rights the Constitution gave the states , though his election was interpreted by many Southerners as the forerunner of a dangerous shift in the federal balance in favor of the Union .
cg10.44.2	post-adj2	Though his election was interpreted as the forerunner of a dangerous shift in the federal balance in favor of the Union by many Southerners , Lincoln himself proposed no such change in the rights the Constitution gave the states .
cg10.45.0	ref	After the war began , he long refused to permit emancipation of the slaves by Union action even in the Border States that stayed with the Union .
cg10.45.1	pre-adv	He long refused to permit emancipation of the slaves by Union action even in the Border States that stayed with the Union , after the war began .
cg10.46.0	ref	He issued his Emancipation Proclamation only when he felt that necessity left him no other way to save the Union .
cg10.46.1	dat-np-np	He issued his Emancipation Proclamation only when he felt that necessity left no other way to save the Union to him .
cg10.46.2	post-adv	Only when he felt that necessity left him no other way to save the Union he issued his Emancipation Proclamation .
cg10.51.0	ref	The fact that the Americans who upheld the sovereignty of their states did this in order to keep many of their people more securely in slavery -- the antithesis of individual liberty -- made the conflict grimmer , and the greater .
cg10.51.1	post-adv	The fact that in order to keep many of their people more securely in slavery -- the antithesis of individual liberty -- the Americans who upheld the sovereignty of their states did this made the conflict grimmer , and the greater .
cg10.52.0	ref	Out of this ordeal the citizen emerged , in the South as in the North , as America 's true sovereign , in `` a new birth of freedom '' , as Lincoln promised .
cg10.52.1	post-adv	As Lincoln promised , out of this ordeal the citizen emerged , in the South as in the North , as America 's true sovereign , in `` a new birth of freedom '' .
cg10.53.0	ref	But before this came about , 214,938 Americans had given their lives in battle for the two concepts of the sovereign rights of men and of states .
cg10.53.1	pre-adv	But 214,938 Americans had given their lives in battle for the two concepts of the sovereign rights of men and of states , before this came about .
cg10.53.2	post-adj2	But before this came about , 214,938 Americans had given their lives for the two concepts of the sovereign rights of men and of states in battle .
cg10.54.0	ref	On their decisive battlefield Lincoln did not distinguish between them when he paid tribute to the `` brave men , living and dead , who fought here '' .
cg10.54.1	post-adv	On their decisive battlefield Lincoln when he paid tribute to the `` brave men , living and dead , who fought here '' did not distinguish between them .
cg10.56.0	ref	To my knowledge , Lincoln remains the only Head of State and Commander-in-Chief who , while fighting a fearful war whose issue was in doubt , proved man enough to say this publicly -- to give his foe the benefit of the fact that in all human truth there is some error , and in all our error , some truth .
cg10.56.1	dat-np-np	To my knowledge , Lincoln remains the only Head of State and Commander-in-Chief who , while fighting a fearful war whose issue was in doubt , proved man enough to say this publicly -- to give the benefit of the fact that in all human truth there is some error , and in all our error , some truth to his foe .
cg10.56.2	pre-adv	To my knowledge , Lincoln remains the only Head of State and Commander-in-Chief who , proved man enough to say this publicly -- to give his foe the benefit of the fact that in all human truth there is some error , and in all our error , some truth , while fighting a fearful war whose issue was in doubt .
cg10.58.0	ref	It is much less difficult now than in Lincoln 's day to see that on both sides sovereign Americans had given their lives in the Civil War to maintain the balance between the powers they had delegated to the States and to their Union .
cg10.58.1	post-adj2	It is much less difficult than in Lincoln 's day now to see that on both sides sovereign Americans had given their lives in the Civil War to maintain the balance between the powers they had delegated to the States and to their Union .
cg10.60.0	ref	The 140,414 Americans who gave `` the last full measure of devotion '' to prevent disunion , preserved individual freedom in the United States from the dangers of anarchy , inherent in confederations , which throughout history have proved fatal in the end to all associations composed primarily of sovereign states , and to the liberties of their people .
cg10.60.1	post-adj2	The 140,414 Americans who gave `` the last full measure of devotion '' to prevent disunion , preserved individual freedom from the dangers of anarchy , inherent in confederations , which throughout history have proved fatal in the end to all associations composed primarily of sovereign states , and to the liberties of their people in the United States .
cg10.62.0	ref	Its appeal from ballots to bullets at Fort Sumter ended by costing the Southerners their right to have slaves -- a right that was even less compatible with the sovereignty of man .
cg10.62.1	dat-np-np	Its appeal from ballots to bullets at Fort Sumter ended by costing their right to have slaves -- a right that was even less compatible with the sovereignty of man to the Southerners .
cg10.63.0	ref	The very fact that they came so near to winning by the wrong method , war , led directly to their losing both the war and the wrong thing they fought for , since it forced Lincoln to free their slaves as a military measure .
cg10.63.1	post-adv	Since it forced Lincoln to free their slaves as a military measure , the very fact that they came so near to winning by the wrong method , war , led directly to their losing both the war and the wrong thing they fought for .
cg10.66.0	ref	Yet though the Southern States lost the worst errors in their case , they did not lose the truth they fought for .
cg10.66.1	pre-adv	Yet they did not lose the truth they fought for , though the Southern States lost the worst errors in their case .
cg11.1.0	ref	As cells coalesced into organisms , they built new `` unnatural '' and internally controlled environments to cope even more successfully with the entropy-increasing properties of the external world .
cg11.1.1	pre-adv	They built new `` unnatural '' and internally controlled environments to cope even more successfully with the entropy-increasing properties of the external world , as cells coalesced into organisms .
cg11.4.0	ref	Will advances in human sciences help us build social structures and governments which will enable us to cope with people as effectively as the primitive combination of protein and nucleic acid built a structure of molecules which enabled it to adapt to a sea of molecular interaction ?
cg11.4.1	post-adj2	Will advances in human sciences help us build social structures and governments which will enable us to cope as effectively as the primitive combination of protein and nucleic acid built a structure of molecules which enabled it to adapt to a sea of molecular interaction with people ?
cg11.6.0	ref	For the family is the simplest example of just such a unit , composed of people , which gives us both some immunity from , and a way of dealing with , other people .
cg11.6.1	dat-np-np	For the family is the simplest example of just such a unit , composed of people , which gives both some immunity from , and a way of dealing with , other people to us .
cg11.9.0	ref	We have ample light when the sun sets ; the temperature of our homes is independent of the seasons ; we fly through the air , although gravity pulls us down ; the range of our voice ignores distance .
cg11.9.1	post-adv	When the sun sets we have ample light ; the temperature of our homes is independent of the seasons ; we fly through the air , although gravity pulls us down ; the range of our voice ignores distance .
cg11.9.2	post-adv	We have ample light when the sun sets ; the temperature of our homes is independent of the seasons ; although gravity pulls us down , we fly through the air ; the range of our voice ignores distance .
cg11.14.0	ref	Political theoretical understanding , although almost at a standstill during this century , did develop during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries , and resulted in a flood of inventions which increased the possibility for man to coexist with man .
cg11.14.1	pre-adv	Political theoretical understanding did develop during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries , and resulted in a flood of inventions which increased the possibility for man to coexist with man , although almost at a standstill during this century .
cg11.18.0	ref	Just as present technology had to await the explanations of physics , so one might expect that social invention will follow growing sociological understanding .
cg11.18.1	pre-adv	So one might expect that social invention will follow growing sociological understanding , just as present technology had to await the explanations of physics .
cg11.27.0	ref	We get some clue from a few remembrances of childhood and from the circumstance that we are probably not much more afraid of people now than man ever was .
cg11.27.1	post-adj2	We get some clue from a few remembrances of childhood and from the circumstance that we are now not much more afraid of people probably than man ever was .
cg11.28.0	ref	We are not now afraid of atomic bombs in the same way that people once feared comets .
cg11.28.1	post-adj2	We are not in the same way that people once feared comets afraid of atomic bombs now .
cg11.31.0	ref	I am certainly not adequately trained to describe or enlarge on human fears , but there are certain features of the fears dispelled by scientific explanations that stand out quite clearly .
cg11.31.1	post-adj2	I am adequately not certainly trained to describe or enlarge on human fears , but there are certain features of the fears dispelled by scientific explanations that stand out quite clearly .
cg11.35.0	ref	Often it is recognized that all the details of the pattern may not be essential to the outcome but , because the pattern was empirically determined and not developed through theoretical understanding , one is never quite certain which behavior elements are effective , and the whole pattern becomes ritualized .
cg11.35.1	pre-adv	Often it is recognized that all the details of the pattern may not be essential to the outcome but , one is never quite certain which behavior elements are effective , because the pattern was empirically determined and not developed through theoretical understanding , and the whole pattern becomes ritualized .
cg11.36.0	ref	Yet often fear persists because , even with the most rigid ritual , one is never quite free from the uneasy feeling that one might make some mistake or that in every previous execution one had been unaware of the really decisive act .
cg11.36.1	post-adv	Because , even with the most rigid ritual , one is never quite free from the uneasy feeling that one might make some mistake or that in every previous execution one had been unaware of the really decisive act yet often fear persists .
cg11.43.0	ref	In fact , although we have dispelled the fear , we have not necessarily assured ourselves that there are no dangers .
cg11.43.1	pre-adv	In fact we have not necessarily assured ourselves that there are no dangers , although we have dispelled the fear .
cg11.50.0	ref	We , in our country , think of war as an external threat which , if it occurs , will not be primarily of our own doing .
cg11.50.1	pre-adv	We , in our country , think of war as an external threat which , will not be primarily of our own doing , if it occurs .
cg11.50.2	post-adj2	We , in our country , think as an external threat which , if it occurs , will not be primarily of our own doing of war .
cg11.51.0	ref	And yet we obviously also believe that the avoidance of the disaster depends in some obscure or at least uncertain way on the details of how we behave .
cg11.51.1	post-adj2	And yet we obviously also believe that the avoidance of the disaster depends on the details of how we behave in some obscure or at least uncertain way .
cg11.54.0	ref	We have staved off a war and , since our behavior has involved all these elements , we can only keep adding to our ritual without daring to abandon any part of it , since we have not the slightest notion which parts are effective .
cg11.54.1	post-adv	We have staved off a war and , since our behavior has involved all these elements , we , since we have not the slightest notion which parts are effective , can only keep adding to our ritual without daring to abandon any part of it .
cg11.54.2	pre-adv	We have staved off a war and , we can only keep adding to our ritual without daring to abandon any part of it , since we have not the slightest notion which parts are effective , since our behavior has involved all these elements .
cg11.55.0	ref	I think that we are here also talking of the kind of fear that a young boy has for a group of boys who are approaching at night along the streets of a large city .
cg11.55.1	post-adj2	I think that we are also here talking of the kind of fear that a young boy has for a group of boys who are approaching at night along the streets of a large city .
cg11.56.0	ref	If an automobile were approaching him , he would know what was required of him , even though he might not be able to act quickly enough .
cg11.56.1	post-adv	If an automobile were approaching him , he , even though he might not be able to act quickly enough , would know what was required of him .
cg11.56.2	pre-adv	He would know what was required of him , even though he might not be able to act quickly enough , if an automobile were approaching him .
cg11.59.0	ref	When confronted with a drunk or an insane person I have no notion of what any one of them might do to me or to himself or to others .
cg11.59.1	pre-adv	I have no notion of what any one of them might do to me or to himself or to others , when confronted with a drunk or an insane person .
cg11.63.0	ref	We are forced , in our behavior towards others , to adopt empirically successful patterns in toto because we have such a minimal understanding of their essential elements .
cg11.63.1	post-adv	We because we have such a minimal understanding of their essential elements are forced , in our behavior towards others , to adopt empirically successful patterns in toto .
cg11.65.0	ref	We use terms from our personal experience with individuals such as `` trust '' , `` cheat '' , and `` get tough '' .
cg11.65.1	post-adj2	We use terms such as `` trust '' , `` cheat '' , and `` get tough '' from our personal experience with individuals .
cg11.66.0	ref	We talk about national character in the same way that Copernicus talked of the compulsions of celestial bodies to move in circles .
cg11.66.1	post-adj2	We talk in the same way that Copernicus talked of the compulsions of celestial bodies to move in circles about national character .
cg11.74.0	ref	In addition , our way of dealing directly with natural phenomena has also changed .
cg11.74.1	post-adj2	In addition , our way of dealing with natural phenomena directly has also changed .
cg11.75.0	ref	Even in domains where detailed and predictive understanding is still lacking , but where some explanations are possible , as with lightning and weather and earthquakes , the appropriate kind of human action has been more adequately indicated .
cg11.75.1	pre-adj2	As with lightning and weather and earthquakes , even in domains where detailed and predictive understanding is still lacking , but where some explanations are possible , the appropriate kind of human action has been more adequately indicated .
cg11.83.0	ref	The persistent horror of having a malformed child has , I believe , been reduced , not because we have gained any control over this misfortune , but precisely because we have learned that we have so little control over it .
cg11.83.1	post-adv	The persistent horror of having a malformed child has , I believe , not because we have gained any control over this misfortune , but precisely because we have learned that we have so little control over it , been reduced .
cg11.85.0	ref	In fact , insofar as science generates any fear , it stems not so much from scientific prowess and gadgets but from the fact that new unanswered questions arise , which , until they are understood , create uncertainty .
cg11.85.1	pre-adv	In fact it stems not so much from scientific prowess and gadgets but from the fact that new unanswered questions arise , which , until they are understood , create uncertainty , insofar as science generates any fear .
cg11.85.2	pre-adv	In fact , insofar as science generates any fear , it stems not so much from scientific prowess and gadgets but from the fact that new unanswered questions arise , which , create uncertainty , until they are understood .
cg12.2.0	ref	His letter had suggested we meet at my hotel at noon on Sunday , and I came into the lobby as the clock struck twelve .
cg12.2.1	post-adv	His letter had suggested we meet at my hotel at noon on Sunday , and as the clock struck twelve I came into the lobby .
cg12.2.2	post-adj3	His letter had suggested we meet at noon at my hotel on Sunday , and I came into the lobby as the clock struck twelve .
cg12.2.3	post-adj3	His letter had suggested we meet on Sunday at noon at my hotel , and I came into the lobby as the clock struck twelve .
cg12.2.4	post-adj3	His letter had suggested we meet at my hotel on Sunday at noon , and I came into the lobby as the clock struck twelve .
cg12.2.5	post-adj3	His letter had suggested we meet on Sunday at my hotel at noon , and I came into the lobby as the clock struck twelve .
cg12.2.6	post-adj3	His letter had suggested we meet at noon on Sunday at my hotel , and I came into the lobby as the clock struck twelve .
cg12.11.0	ref	Or is it relevant because it teaches us something useful to know about ourselves ?
cg12.11.1	dat-np-np	Or is it relevant because it teaches something useful to know about ourselves to us ?
cg12.12.0	ref	I knew that a conversation with the author would not settle such questions , because a man is not the same as his writing : in the last analysis , the questions had to be settled by the work itself .
cg12.12.1	post-adv	I knew that a conversation with the author , because a man is not the same as his writing , would not settle such questions : in the last analysis , the questions had to be settled by the work itself .
cg12.14.0	ref	My curiosity was sharpened a day or two before the interview by a conversation I had with a well-informed teacher of literature , a Jesuit father , at a conference on religious drama near Paris .
cg12.14.1	post-adj2	My curiosity was sharpened by a conversation I had with a well-informed teacher of literature , a Jesuit father , at a conference on religious drama near Paris a day or two before the interview .
cg12.15.0	ref	When Beckett 's name came into the discussion , the priest grew loud and told me that Beckett `` hates life '' .
cg12.15.1	pre-adv	The priest grew loud and told me that Beckett `` hates life '' , when Beckett 's name came into the discussion .
cg12.16.0	ref	That , I thought , is at least one thing I can find out when we meet .
cg12.16.1	post-adv	That , I thought , is at least one thing I when we meet can find out .
cg12.20.0	ref	Unruly hair goes straight up from his forehead , standing so high that the top falls gently over , as if to show that it really is hair and not bristle .
cg12.20.1	post-adv	Unruly hair goes straight up from his forehead , standing so high that , as if to show that it really is hair and not bristle , the top falls gently over .
cg12.20.2	post-adj2	Unruly hair goes from his forehead straight up , standing so high that the top falls gently over , as if to show that it really is hair and not bristle .
cg12.24.0	ref	He seems , by some unconscious division of labor , to have given them that one function and no other , leaving communication to the rest of the face .
cg12.24.1	dat-np-np	He seems , by some unconscious division of labor , to have given that one function and no other to them , leaving communication to the rest of the face .
cg12.27.0	ref	The Irish accent is , as one would expect , combined with slight inflections from the French .
cg12.27.1	post-adv	As one would expect , the Irish accent is combined with slight inflections from the French .
cg12.37.0	ref	We can not listen to a conversation for five minutes without being acutely aware of the confusion .
cg12.37.1	post-adj3	We can not listen for five minutes to a conversation without being acutely aware of the confusion .
cg12.37.2	post-adj3	We can not listen without being acutely aware of the confusion for five minutes to a conversation .
cg12.37.3	post-adj3	We can not listen to a conversation without being acutely aware of the confusion for five minutes .
cg12.37.4	post-adj3	We can not listen without being acutely aware of the confusion to a conversation for five minutes .
cg12.37.5	post-adj3	We can not listen for five minutes without being acutely aware of the confusion to a conversation .
cg12.41.0	ref	I suggested that one must let it in because it is the truth , but Beckett did not take to the word truth .
cg12.41.1	post-adv	I suggested that one because it is the truth must let it in , but Beckett did not take to the word truth .
cg12.45.0	ref	One can not speak anymore of being , one must speak only of the mess .
cg12.45.1	post-adj2	One can not speak of being anymore , one must speak only of the mess .
cg12.46.0	ref	When Heidegger and Sartre speak of a contrast between being and existence , they may be right , I do n't know , but their language is too philosophical for me .
cg12.46.1	pre-adv	They may be right , when Heidegger and Sartre speak of a contrast between being and existence , I do n't know , but their language is too philosophical for me .
cg12.53.0	ref	`` How could the mess be admitted , because it appears to be the very opposite of form and therefore destructive of the very thing that art holds itself to be '' ?
cg12.53.1	post-adv	`` How could the mess , because it appears to be the very opposite of form and therefore destructive of the very thing that art holds itself to be , be admitted '' ?
cg12.54.0	ref	But now we can keep it out no longer , because we have come into a time when `` it invades our experience at every moment .
cg12.54.1	post-adv	But now we , because we have come into a time when `` it invades our experience at every moment , can keep it out no longer .
cg12.60.0	ref	If we look at recent art we find it preoccupied with form .
cg12.60.1	pre-adv	We find it preoccupied with form if we look at recent art .
cg12.68.0	ref	To find a form that accommodates the mess , that is the task of the artist now '' .
cg12.68.1	quote	To find a form that accommodates the mess , is that the task of the artist now '' .
cg12.74.0	ref	The classical lines of the church which Napoleon thought of as a Temple of Glory , dominated all the scene where we sat .
cg12.74.1	post-adj2	The classical lines of the church which Napoleon thought as a Temple of Glory of , dominated all the scene where we sat .
cg12.75.0	ref	The Boulevard De La Madeleine , the Boulevard Malesherbes , and the Rue Royale ran to it with graceful flattery , bearing tidings of the Age of Reason .
cg12.75.1	post-adj2	The Boulevard De La Madeleine , the Boulevard Malesherbes , and the Rue Royale ran with graceful flattery to it , bearing tidings of the Age of Reason .
cg12.86.0	ref	If life and death did not both present themselves to us , there would be no inscrutability .
cg12.86.1	pre-adv	There would be no inscrutability , if life and death did not both present themselves to us .
cg12.87.0	ref	If there were only darkness , all would be clear .
cg12.87.1	pre-adv	All would be clear , if there were only darkness .
cg12.94.0	ref	As she goes , she herself will be illuminated .
cg12.94.1	pre-adv	She herself will be illuminated , as she goes .
cg12.98.0	ref	The question would also be removed if we believed in the contrary -- total salvation .
cg12.98.1	post-adv	The question would also if we believed in the contrary -- total salvation be removed .
cg12.109.0	ref	He knelt down at his bed as long as he could kneel .
cg12.109.1	post-adj2	He knelt down as long as he could kneel at his bed .
cg12.112.0	ref	My brother and mother got no value from their religion when they died .
cg12.112.1	post-adv	When they died my brother and mother got no value from their religion .
cg12.115.0	ref	When you pass a church on an Irish bus , all the hands flurry in the sign of the cross .
cg12.115.1	pre-adv	All the hands flurry in the sign of the cross , when you pass a church on an Irish bus .
cg12.120.0	ref	At a party an English intellectual -- so-called -- asked me why I write always about distress .
cg12.120.1	post-adj2	At a party an English intellectual -- so-called -- asked me why I write about distress always .
cg12.122.0	ref	He wanted to know if my father had beaten me or my mother had run away from home to give me an unhappy childhood .
cg12.122.1	dat-np-np	He wanted to know if my father had beaten me or my mother had run away from home to give an unhappy childhood to me .
cg12.122.2	post-adj2	He wanted to know if my father had beaten me or my mother had run from home away to give me an unhappy childhood .
cg12.128.0	ref	It is screaming at you even in the taxis of London '' .
cg12.128.1	post-adj2	It is screaming even in the taxis of London at you '' .
cg12.134.0	ref	If there were only the mess , all would be clear ; but there is also compassion .
cg12.134.1	pre-adv	All would be clear , if there were only the mess ; but there is also compassion .
cg12.139.0	ref	`` Waiting For Godot '' sells even better in America than in France .
cg12.139.1	post-adj3	`` Waiting For Godot '' sells in America even better than in France .
cg12.139.2	post-adj3	`` Waiting For Godot '' sells than in France in America even better .
cg12.139.3	post-adj3	`` Waiting For Godot '' sells even better than in France in America .
cg12.139.4	post-adj3	`` Waiting For Godot '' sells than in France even better in America .
cg12.139.5	post-adj3	`` Waiting For Godot '' sells in America than in France even better .
cg12.140.0	ref	The consciousness it mirrors may have come earlier to Europe than to America , but it is the consciousness that most `` mature '' societies arrive at when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture .
cg12.140.1	post-adv	The consciousness it mirrors may have come earlier to Europe than to America , but it is the consciousness that when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture most `` mature '' societies arrive at .
cg12.140.2	post-adj3	The consciousness it mirrors may have come to Europe earlier than to America , but it is the consciousness that most `` mature '' societies arrive at when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture .
cg12.140.3	post-adj3	The consciousness it mirrors may have come than to America to Europe earlier , but it is the consciousness that most `` mature '' societies arrive at when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture .
cg12.140.4	post-adj3	The consciousness it mirrors may have come earlier than to America to Europe , but it is the consciousness that most `` mature '' societies arrive at when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture .
cg12.140.5	post-adj3	The consciousness it mirrors may have come than to America earlier to Europe , but it is the consciousness that most `` mature '' societies arrive at when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture .
cg12.140.6	post-adj3	The consciousness it mirrors may have come to Europe than to America earlier , but it is the consciousness that most `` mature '' societies arrive at when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture .
cg13.3.0	ref	And D.H. Lawrence , in Fantasia Of The Unconscious , protested vehemently against the overestimation of the sexual motive .
cg13.3.1	post-adj2	And D.H. Lawrence , in Fantasia Of The Unconscious , protested against the overestimation of the sexual motive vehemently .
cg13.4.0	ref	Though sex in some form or other enters into all human activity and it was a good thing that Freud emphasized this aspect of human nature , it is fantastic to explain everything in terms of sex .
cg13.4.1	pre-adv	It is fantastic to explain everything in terms of sex , though sex in some form or other enters into all human activity and it was a good thing that Freud emphasized this aspect of human nature .
cg13.5.0	ref	`` All is not sex '' , declared Lawrence .
cg13.5.1	iquote	`` All is not sex '' , Lawrence declared .
cg13.13.0	ref	Lawrence Lipton , in The Holy Barbarians , stresses that for the beat generation sex is more than a source of pleasure ; it is a mystique , and their private language is rich in the multivalent ambiguities of sexual reference so that they dwell in a sexualized universe of discourse .
cg13.13.1	post-adv	Lawrence Lipton , in The Holy Barbarians , stresses that for the beat generation sex is more than a source of pleasure ; it is a mystique , and so that they dwell in a sexualized universe of discourse their private language is rich in the multivalent ambiguities of sexual reference .
cg13.16.0	ref	For this reason , too , their language is more forthright and earthy .
cg13.16.1	pre-adj2	Too , for this reason , their language is more forthright and earthy .
cg13.22.0	ref	If they avoid the use of the pungent , outlawed four-letter word it is because it is taboo ; it is sacred .
cg13.22.1	pre-adv	It is because it is taboo ; it is sacred if they avoid the use of the pungent , outlawed four-letter word .
cg13.23.0	ref	As Lipton , the prophet of the beat generation , declares : `` In the sexual act , the beat are filled with mana , the divine power .
cg13.23.1	pre-adv	`` In the sexual act , the beat are filled with mana , the divine power as Lipton , the prophet of the beat generation , declares .
cg13.26.0	ref	If Wilhelm Reich is the Moses who has led them out of the Egypt of sexual slavery , Dylan Thomas is the poet who offers them the Dionysian dialectic of justification for their indulgence in liquor , marijuana , sex , and jazz .
cg13.26.1	dat-np-np	If Wilhelm Reich is the Moses who has led them out of the Egypt of sexual slavery , Dylan Thomas is the poet who offers the Dionysian dialectic of justification for their indulgence in liquor , marijuana , sex , and jazz to them .
cg13.26.2	pre-adv	Dylan Thomas is the poet who offers them the Dionysian dialectic of justification for their indulgence in liquor , marijuana , sex , and jazz , if Wilhelm Reich is the Moses who has led them out of the Egypt of sexual slavery .
cg13.28.0	ref	Thus , paradoxically , the beat writers resort to `` religious '' metaphors : they are in search of mana , the spiritual , the numinous , but not anything connected with formal religion .
cg13.28.1	pre-adj2	Paradoxically , thus , the beat writers resort to `` religious '' metaphors : they are in search of mana , the spiritual , the numinous , but not anything connected with formal religion .
cg13.30.0	ref	And Zen Buddhism , though it is extremely difficult to understand how these internal contradictions are reconciled , helps them in their struggle to achieve personal salvation through sexual release .
cg13.30.1	pre-adv	And Zen Buddhism helps them in their struggle to achieve personal salvation through sexual release , though it is extremely difficult to understand how these internal contradictions are reconciled .
cg13.35.0	ref	Instead of giving themselves spontaneously to the orgiastic release that jazz can give them , they undergo psychoanalysis or flirt with mysticism or turn to prostitutes for satisfaction .
cg13.35.1	post-adj2	Instead of giving themselves to the orgiastic release that jazz can give them spontaneously , they undergo psychoanalysis or flirt with mysticism or turn to prostitutes for satisfaction .
cg13.43.0	ref	If he is the child of nothingness , if he is the predestined victim of an age of atomic wars , then he will consult only his own organic needs and go beyond good and evil .
cg13.43.1	pre-adv	If he is the predestined victim of an age of atomic wars , then he will consult only his own organic needs and go beyond good and evil , if he is the child of nothingness .
cg13.43.2	pre-adv	If he is the child of nothingness then he will consult only his own organic needs and go beyond good and evil , if he is the predestined victim of an age of atomic wars .
cg13.44.0	ref	He will not curb his instinctual desires but release the energy within him that makes him feel truly and fully alive , even if it is only for this brief moment before the apocalypse of annihilation explodes on earth .
cg13.44.1	post-adv	He , even if it is only for this brief moment before the apocalypse of annihilation explodes on earth , will not curb his instinctual desires but release the energy within him that makes him feel truly and fully alive .
cg13.44.2	post-adv	He will not curb his instinctual desires but release the energy within him that makes him feel truly and fully alive , even if before the apocalypse of annihilation explodes on earth it is only for this brief moment .
cg13.52.0	ref	And the life they lead is undisciplined and for the most part unproductive , even though they make a fetish of devoting themselves to some creative pursuit -- writing , painting , music .
cg13.52.1	post-adv	Even though they make a fetish of devoting themselves to some creative pursuit -- writing , painting , music , and the life they lead is undisciplined and for the most part unproductive .
cg13.54.0	ref	When they express themselves it is incandescent hatred that shines forth , the rage of repudiation , the ecstasy of negation .
cg13.54.1	pre-adv	It is incandescent hatred that shines forth , the rage of repudiation , the ecstasy of negation , when they express themselves .
cg13.57.0	ref	Monogamy is the vice from which the abjectly fearful middle class continue to suffer , whereas the beatnik has the courage to break out of that prison of respectability .
cg13.57.1	post-adv	Whereas the beatnik has the courage to break out of that prison of respectability , monogamy is the vice from which the abjectly fearful middle class continue to suffer .
cg13.77.0	ref	This is the rhetoric of righteousness the beatniks use in defending their way of life , their search for wholeness , though their actual existence fails to reach these `` religious '' heights .
cg13.77.1	post-adv	Though their actual existence fails to reach these `` religious '' heights , this is the rhetoric of righteousness the beatniks use in defending their way of life , their search for wholeness .
cg13.87.0	ref	Since the homosexuals widely use marijuana , they do not have to be initiated .
cg13.87.1	pre-adv	They do not have to be initiated , since the homosexuals widely use marijuana .
cg13.89.0	ref	As Lipton puts it : `` The Eros is felt in the magic circle of marijuana with far greater force , as a unifying principle in human relationships , than at any other time except , perhaps , in the mutual metaphysical orgasms .
cg13.89.1	pre-adv	`` The Eros is felt in the magic circle of marijuana with far greater force , as a unifying principle in human relationships , than at any other time except , perhaps , in the mutual metaphysical orgasms as Lipton puts it .
cg13.91.0	ref	Under the influence of marijuana the beatnik comes alive within and experiences a wonderfully enhanced sense of self as if he had discovered the open sesame to the universe of being .
cg13.91.1	post-adv	Under the influence of marijuana the beatnik as if he had discovered the open sesame to the universe of being comes alive within and experiences a wonderfully enhanced sense of self .
cg13.93.0	ref	If he thus achieves a lyrical , dreamlike , drugged intensity , he pays the price for his indulgence by producing work -- Allen Ginsberg 's `` Howl '' is a striking example of this tendency -- that is disoriented , Dionysian but without depth and without Apollonian control .
cg13.93.1	pre-adv	He pays the price for his indulgence by producing work -- Allen Ginsberg 's `` Howl '' is a striking example of this tendency -- that is disoriented , Dionysian but without depth and without Apollonian control , if he thus achieves a lyrical , dreamlike , drugged intensity .
cg13.95.0	ref	How is the beat poet to achieve unity of form when he is at the same time engaged in a systematic derangement of senses .
cg13.95.1	post-adv	How is the beat poet when he is at the same time engaged in a systematic derangement of senses to achieve unity of form .
cg13.96.0	ref	If love reflects the nature of man , as Ortega Y Gasset believes , if the person in love betrays decisively what he is by his behavior in love , then the writers of the beat generation are creating a new literary genre .
cg13.96.1	pre-adv	As Ortega Y Gasset believes , if the person in love betrays decisively what he is by his behavior in love , then the writers of the beat generation are creating a new literary genre , if love reflects the nature of man .
cg13.96.2	pre-adv	If love reflects the nature of man if the person in love betrays decisively what he is by his behavior in love , then the writers of the beat generation are creating a new literary genre , as Ortega Y Gasset believes .
cg13.96.3	pre-adv	If love reflects the nature of man , as Ortega Y Gasset believes then the writers of the beat generation are creating a new literary genre , if the person in love betrays decisively what he is by his behavior in love .
cg13.96.4	post-adj2	If love reflects the nature of man , as Ortega Y Gasset believes , if the person in love betrays by his behavior in love what he is decisively , then the writers of the beat generation are creating a new literary genre .
cg14.14.0	ref	From above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse of life on the floor of this green sea : a neighbor 's gingham skirt flashing into sight for an instant on the path beneath her grape-arbor , or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter of garments hung there , half-way down the block .
cg14.14.1	post-adj3	From above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse of life on the floor of this green sea : a neighbor 's gingham skirt flashing for an instant into sight on the path beneath her grape-arbor , or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter of garments hung there , half-way down the block .
cg14.14.2	post-adj3	From above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse of life on the floor of this green sea : a neighbor 's gingham skirt flashing on the path beneath her grape-arbor for an instant into sight , or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter of garments hung there , half-way down the block .
cg14.14.3	post-adj3	From above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse of life on the floor of this green sea : a neighbor 's gingham skirt flashing into sight on the path beneath her grape-arbor for an instant , or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter of garments hung there , half-way down the block .
cg14.14.4	post-adj3	From above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse of life on the floor of this green sea : a neighbor 's gingham skirt flashing on the path beneath her grape-arbor into sight for an instant , or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter of garments hung there , half-way down the block .
cg14.14.5	post-adj3	From above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse of life on the floor of this green sea : a neighbor 's gingham skirt flashing for an instant on the path beneath her grape-arbor into sight , or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter of garments hung there , half-way down the block .
cg14.16.0	ref	Another had ended before it began .
cg14.16.1	post-adv	Another before it began had ended .
cg14.18.0	ref	From maturity one looks back at the succession of years , counts them and makes them many , yet can not feel length in the number , however large .
cg14.18.1	post-adj2	From maturity one looks at the succession of years back , counts them and makes them many , yet can not feel length in the number , however large .
cg14.23.0	ref	Once , then -- for how many years or how few does not matter -- my world was bound round by fences , when I was too small to reach the apple tree bough , to twist my knee over it and pull myself up .
cg14.23.1	pre-adj2	Then , once -- for how many years or how few does not matter -- my world was bound round by fences , when I was too small to reach the apple tree bough , to twist my knee over it and pull myself up .
cg14.23.2	post-adv	Once , then -- for how many years or how few does not matter -- my world , when I was too small to reach the apple tree bough , to twist my knee over it and pull myself up , was bound round by fences .
cg14.23.3	post-adj2	Once , then -- for how many years or how few does not matter -- my world was bound by fences round , when I was too small to reach the apple tree bough , to twist my knee over it and pull myself up .
cg14.25.0	ref	I have no picture in my mind of the garden as a whole -- that I could not see -- but certain aspects of certain corners linger in the memory : wind-blown , frost-bitten , white chrysanthemums beneath a window , with their brittle brown leaves and their sharp scent of November ; ripe pears lying in long grass , to be turned over by a dusty-slippered foot , cautiously , lest bees still worked in the ragged , brown-edged holes ; hot-colored verbenas in the corner between the dining-room wall and the side porch , where we passed on our way to the pump with the half-gourd tied to it as a cup by my grandmother for our childish pleasure in drinking from it .
cg14.25.1	post-adv	I have no picture in my mind of the garden as a whole -- that I could not see -- but certain aspects of certain corners linger in the memory : wind-blown , frost-bitten , white chrysanthemums beneath a window , with their brittle brown leaves and their sharp scent of November ; ripe pears lying in long grass , to , lest bees still worked in the ragged , brown-edged holes , be turned over by a dusty-slippered foot , cautiously ; hot-colored verbenas in the corner between the dining-room wall and the side porch , where we passed on our way to the pump with the half-gourd tied to it as a cup by my grandmother for our childish pleasure in drinking from it .
cg14.25.2	post-adj2	I have no picture of the garden as a whole in my mind -- that I could not see -- but certain aspects of certain corners linger in the memory : wind-blown , frost-bitten , white chrysanthemums beneath a window , with their brittle brown leaves and their sharp scent of November ; ripe pears lying in long grass , to be turned over by a dusty-slippered foot , cautiously , lest bees still worked in the ragged , brown-edged holes ; hot-colored verbenas in the corner between the dining-room wall and the side porch , where we passed on our way to the pump with the half-gourd tied to it as a cup by my grandmother for our childish pleasure in drinking from it .
cg14.30.0	ref	Three of these only were protected from us by stern commandment : the roses , whose petals might not be collected until they had fallen , to be made into perfume or rose-tea to drink ; the peonies , whose tight sticky buds would be blighted by the laying on of a finger , although they were not apparently harmed by the ants that crawled over them ; and the poppies .
cg14.30.1	post-adv	Three of these only were protected from us by stern commandment : the roses , whose petals might not , until they had fallen , be collected to be made into perfume or rose-tea to drink ; the peonies , whose tight sticky buds would be blighted by the laying on of a finger , although they were not apparently harmed by the ants that crawled over them ; and the poppies .
cg14.30.2	post-adv	Three of these only were protected from us by stern commandment : the roses , whose petals might not be collected until they had fallen , to be made into perfume or rose-tea to drink ; the peonies , whose tight sticky buds would , although they were not apparently harmed by the ants that crawled over them , be blighted by the laying on of a finger ; and the poppies .
cg14.30.3	post-adj2	Three of these only were protected by stern commandment from us : the roses , whose petals might not be collected until they had fallen , to be made into perfume or rose-tea to drink ; the peonies , whose tight sticky buds would be blighted by the laying on of a finger , although they were not apparently harmed by the ants that crawled over them ; and the poppies .
cg14.31.0	ref	I have more than once sat cross-legged in the grass through a long summer morning and watched without touching while a poppy bud higher than my head slowly but visibly pushed off its cap , unfolded , and shook out like a banner in the sun its flaming vermilion petals .
cg14.31.1	post-adv	I while a poppy bud higher than my head slowly but visibly pushed off its cap , unfolded , and shook out like a banner in the sun its flaming vermilion petals have more than once sat cross-legged in the grass through a long summer morning and watched without touching .
cg14.32.0	ref	Other flowers we might gather as we pleased : myrtle and white violets from beneath the lilacs ; the lilacs themselves , that bloomed so prodigally but for the most part beyond our reach ; snowballs ; hollyhock blossoms that , turned upside down , make pink-petticoated ladies ; and the little , dark blue larkspur that scattered its seed everywhere .
cg14.32.1	post-adv	Other flowers we as we pleased might gather : myrtle and white violets from beneath the lilacs ; the lilacs themselves , that bloomed so prodigally but for the most part beyond our reach ; snowballs ; hollyhock blossoms that , turned upside down , make pink-petticoated ladies ; and the little , dark blue larkspur that scattered its seed everywhere .
cg14.33.0	ref	More potent a charm to bring back that time of life than this record of a few pictures and a few remembered facts would be a catalogue of the minutiae which are of the very stuff of the mind , intrinsic , because they were known in the beginning not by the eye alone but by the hand that held them .
cg14.33.1	post-adv	More potent a charm to bring back that time of life than this record of a few pictures and a few remembered facts would be a catalogue of the minutiae which , because they were known in the beginning not by the eye alone but by the hand that held them , are of the very stuff of the mind , intrinsic .
cg14.35.0	ref	Pale yellow snapdragons that by pinching could be made to bite ; seed-pods of the balsams that snapped like fire-crackers at a touch ; red-and-yellow columbines whose round-tipped spurs were picked off and eaten for the honey in them ; morning-glory buds which could be so grasped and squeezed that they burst like a blown-up paper bag ; bright flowers from the trumpet vine that made `` gloves '' on the ends of ten waggling fingers .
cg14.35.1	post-adj2	Pale yellow snapdragons that by pinching could be made to bite ; seed-pods of the balsams that snapped at a touch like fire-crackers ; red-and-yellow columbines whose round-tipped spurs were picked off and eaten for the honey in them ; morning-glory buds which could be so grasped and squeezed that they burst like a blown-up paper bag ; bright flowers from the trumpet vine that made `` gloves '' on the ends of ten waggling fingers .
cg14.37.0	ref	Dead fledgling birds , their squashed-looking nakedness and the odor of decay that clung to the hand when they had been buried in our graveyard in front of the purple flags .
cg14.37.1	post-adv	Dead fledgling birds , their squashed-looking nakedness and the odor of decay that when they had been buried in our graveyard in front of the purple flags clung to the hand .
cg14.39.0	ref	Every morning early , in the summer , we searched the trunks of the trees as high as we could reach for the locust shells , carefully detached their hooked claws from the bark where they hung , and stabled them , a weird faery herd , in an angle between the high roots of the tulip tree , where no grass grew in the dense shade .
cg14.39.1	pre-adj2	In the summer , every morning early , we searched the trunks of the trees as high as we could reach for the locust shells , carefully detached their hooked claws from the bark where they hung , and stabled them , a weird faery herd , in an angle between the high roots of the tulip tree , where no grass grew in the dense shade .
cg14.39.2	post-adj2	Every morning early , in the summer , we searched the trunks of the trees for the locust shells as high as we could reach , carefully detached their hooked claws from the bark where they hung , and stabled them , a weird faery herd , in an angle between the high roots of the tulip tree , where no grass grew in the dense shade .
cg14.41.0	ref	When these had been pocketed , we could still spend a morning cracking open other pebbles for our delight in seeing how much prettier they were inside than their dull exteriors indicated .
cg14.41.1	pre-adv	We could still spend a morning cracking open other pebbles for our delight in seeing how much prettier they were inside than their dull exteriors indicated , when these had been pocketed .
cg14.43.0	ref	Squatting on our haunches beside the flat stone we broke them on , we were safe behind the high closed gates at the end of the drive : safe from interruption and the observation and possible amusement of the passers-by .
cg14.43.1	post-adj2	Squatting beside the flat stone we broke them on on our haunches , we were safe behind the high closed gates at the end of the drive : safe from interruption and the observation and possible amusement of the passers-by .
cg14.44.0	ref	Thus shielded , we played many foolish games in comfortable unselfconsciousness ; even when the fences became a part of the game -- when a vine-embowered gate-post was the Sleeping Beauty 's enchanted castle , or when Rapunzel let down her golden hair from beneath the crocketed spire , even then we paid little heed to those who went by on the path outside .
cg14.44.1	pre-adv	Thus shielded , we played many foolish games in comfortable unselfconsciousness ; when a vine-embowered gate-post was the Sleeping Beauty 's enchanted castle , or when Rapunzel let down her golden hair from beneath the crocketed spire , even then we paid little heed to those who went by on the path outside -- even when the fences became a part of the game .
cg14.44.2	pre-adv	Thus shielded , we played many foolish games in comfortable unselfconsciousness ; even when the fences became a part of the game even then we paid little heed to those who went by on the path outside -- when a vine-embowered gate-post was the Sleeping Beauty 's enchanted castle , or when Rapunzel let down her golden hair from beneath the crocketed spire .
cg14.45.0	ref	We enjoyed a paradoxical freedom when we were still too young for school .
cg14.45.1	post-adv	When we were still too young for school we enjoyed a paradoxical freedom .
cg14.47.0	ref	They never troubled themselves about us while we were playing , because the fence formed such a definite boundary and `` Do n't go outside the gate '' was a command so impossible of misinterpretation .
cg14.47.1	post-adv	While we were playing , they never troubled themselves about us because the fence formed such a definite boundary and `` Do n't go outside the gate '' was a command so impossible of misinterpretation .
cg14.47.2	post-adv	Because the fence formed such a definite boundary and `` Do n't go outside the gate '' was a command so impossible of misinterpretation , they never troubled themselves about us while we were playing .
cg14.48.0	ref	We were not , however , entirely unacquainted with the varying aspects of the street .
cg14.48.1	post-adj2	We were not , entirely , however unacquainted with the varying aspects of the street .
cg14.49.0	ref	We were forbidden to swing on the gates , lest they sag on their hinges in a poor-white-trash way , but we could stand on them , when they were latched , rest our chins on the top , and stare and stare , committing to memory , quite unintentionally , all the details that lay before our eyes .
cg14.49.1	post-adv	We , lest they sag on their hinges in a poor-white-trash way , were forbidden to swing on the gates , but we could stand on them , when they were latched , rest our chins on the top , and stare and stare , committing to memory , quite unintentionally , all the details that lay before our eyes .
cg14.49.2	post-adv	We were forbidden to swing on the gates , lest they sag on their hinges in a poor-white-trash way , but we could , when they were latched , stand on them , rest our chins on the top , and stare and stare , committing to memory , quite unintentionally , all the details that lay before our eyes .
cg14.50.0	ref	The street that is full now of traffic and parked cars then and for many years drowsed on an August afternoon in the shade of the curbside trees , and silence was a weight , almost palpable , in the air .
cg14.50.1	post-adj2	The street that is full of traffic and parked cars now then and for many years drowsed on an August afternoon in the shade of the curbside trees , and silence was a weight , almost palpable , in the air .
cg14.52.0	ref	A hay-wagon moved slowly along the gutter , the top of it swept by the low boughs of the maple trees , and loose straws were left hanging tangled among the leaves .
cg14.52.1	post-adj2	A hay-wagon moved along the gutter slowly , the top of it swept by the low boughs of the maple trees , and loose straws were left hanging tangled among the leaves .
cg14.54.0	ref	If a child watched its progress he whispered , `` Hay , hay , load of hay -- make a wish and turn away '' , and then stared rigidly in the opposite direction until the sound of the horses ' feet returned no more .
cg14.54.1	post-adv	If a child watched its progress he until the sound of the horses ' feet returned no more whispered , `` Hay , hay , load of hay -- make a wish and turn away '' , and then stared rigidly in the opposite direction .
cg14.54.2	pre-adv	He whispered , `` Hay , hay , load of hay -- make a wish and turn away '' , and then stared rigidly in the opposite direction until the sound of the horses ' feet returned no more if a child watched its progress .
cg14.54.3	post-adj2	If a child watched its progress he whispered , `` Hay , hay , load of hay -- make a wish and turn away '' , and then stared in the opposite direction rigidly until the sound of the horses ' feet returned no more .
cg14.55.0	ref	When the hay wagon had gone , and an interval passed , a huckster 's cart might turn the corner .
cg14.55.1	pre-adv	A huckster 's cart might turn the corner , when the hay wagon had gone , and an interval passed .
cg14.57.0	ref	Sleepily , as if half-reluctant to break the silence , he lifted his voice : `` Rhu-beb-ni-ice nice fresh rhu-beb today '' !
cg14.57.1	pre-adv	Sleepily he lifted his voice : `` Rhu-beb-ni-ice nice fresh rhu-beb today '' , as if half-reluctant to break the silence !
cg14.58.0	ref	The lazy sing-song was spaced in time like the drone of a bumble-bee .
cg14.58.1	post-adj2	The lazy sing-song was spaced like the drone of a bumble-bee in time .
cg14.63.0	ref	The sun moved slant-wise across the sky and down ; the trees ' shadows circled from street to sidewalk , from sidewalk to lawn .
cg14.63.1	post-adj2	The sun moved across the sky and down slant-wise ; the trees ' shadows circled from street to sidewalk , from sidewalk to lawn .
cg14.66.0	ref	But the fences were still in place fifty-odd years ago , and when we stood on the gate to look over , the sidewalk under our eyes was not cement but two rows of paving stones with grass between and on both sides .
cg14.66.1	pre-adv	But the fences were still in place fifty-odd years ago , and the sidewalk under our eyes was not cement but two rows of paving stones with grass between and on both sides , when we stood on the gate to look over .
cg14.66.2	post-adj2	But the fences were fifty-odd years ago in place still , and when we stood on the gate to look over , the sidewalk under our eyes was not cement but two rows of paving stones with grass between and on both sides .
cg14.67.0	ref	The curb was a line of stone laid edgewise in the dirt and tilted this way and that by frost in the ground or the roots of trees .
cg14.67.1	post-adj2	The curb was a line of stone laid in the dirt edgewise and tilted this way and that by frost in the ground or the roots of trees .
cg14.69.0	ref	The street was unpaved and rose steeply toward the center ; it was mud in wet weather and dust , ankle-deep , in dry , and could be crossed only at the corner where there were stepping stones .
cg14.69.1	post-adj2	The street was unpaved and rose toward the center steeply ; it was mud in wet weather and dust , ankle-deep , in dry , and could be crossed only at the corner where there were stepping stones .
cg15.1.0	ref	It is worth dwelling in some detail on the crisis of this story , because it brings together a number of characteristic elements and makes of them a curious , riddling compound obscurely but centrally significant for Mann 's work .
cg15.1.1	post-adv	Because it brings together a number of characteristic elements and makes of them a curious , riddling compound obscurely but centrally significant for Mann 's work , it is worth dwelling in some detail on the crisis of this story .
cg15.1.2	post-adj2	It is worth dwelling on the crisis of this story in some detail , because it brings together a number of characteristic elements and makes of them a curious , riddling compound obscurely but centrally significant for Mann 's work .
cg15.9.0	ref	And this occurs now , at the refrain of Jacoby 's song -- at the point , in fact , of the name `` Lizzy '' ; a modulation described as `` almost a stroke of genius '' .
cg15.9.1	post-adj2	And this occurs at the refrain of Jacoby 's song -- at the point , in fact , of the name `` Lizzy '' , now ; a modulation described as `` almost a stroke of genius '' .
cg15.13.0	ref	In the work of every artist , I suppose , there may be found one or more moments which strike the student as absolutely decisive , ultimately emblematic of what it is all about ; not less strikingly so for being mysterious , as though some deeply hidden constatation of thoughts were enciphered in a single image , a single moment .
cg15.13.1	post-adv	In the work of every artist , I suppose , there may be found one or more moments which strike the student as absolutely decisive , ultimately emblematic of what it is all about ; not less strikingly so for , as though some deeply hidden constatation of thoughts were enciphered in a single image , a single moment , being mysterious .
cg15.15.0	ref	The horrifying humor , the specifically sexual embarrassment of the joke gone wrong , the monstrous image of the fat man dressed up as a whore dressing up as a baby ; the epiphany of that quivering flesh ; the bringing together around it of the secret liaison between indolent , mindless sensuality and sharp , shrewd talent , cleverness with an occasional touch of genius -LRB- which , however , does not know `` how to attack the problem of suffering '' -RRB- ; the miraculous way in which music , revelation and death are associated in a single instant -- all this seems a triumph of art , a rather desperate art , in itself ; beyond itself , also , it evokes numerous and distant resonances from the entire body of Mann 's work .
cg15.15.1	pre-adj2	The horrifying humor , the specifically sexual embarrassment of the joke gone wrong , the monstrous image of the fat man dressed up as a whore dressing up as a baby ; the epiphany of that quivering flesh ; the bringing together around it of the secret liaison between indolent , mindless sensuality and sharp , shrewd talent , cleverness with an occasional touch of genius -LRB- which , however , does not know `` how to attack the problem of suffering '' -RRB- ; the miraculous way in which music , revelation and death are associated in a single instant -- all this seems a triumph of art , a rather desperate art , in itself ; also , beyond itself , it evokes numerous and distant resonances from the entire body of Mann 's work .
cg15.16.0	ref	When I try to work out my reasons for feeling that this passage is of critical significance , I come up with the following ideas , which I shall express very briefly here and revert to in a later essay .
cg15.16.1	pre-adv	I come up with the following ideas , which I shall express very briefly here and revert to in a later essay , when I try to work out my reasons for feeling that this passage is of critical significance .
cg15.24.0	ref	We shall return to these statements and deal with them more fully as the evidence for them accumulates .
cg15.24.1	post-adv	We as the evidence for them accumulates shall return to these statements and deal with them more fully .
cg15.25.0	ref	For the present it is enough to note that in the grotesque figure of Jacoby , at the moment of his collapse , all these elements come together in prophetic parody .
cg15.25.1	post-adj2	For the present it is enough to note that in the grotesque figure of Jacoby , at the moment of his collapse , all these elements come in prophetic parody together .
cg15.27.0	ref	That this abandonment takes place on a stage , during an ' artistic ' performance , is enough to associate Jacoby with art , and to bring down upon him the punishment for art ; that is , he is suspect , guilty , punishable , as is anyone in Mann 's stories who produces illusion , and this is true even though the constant elements of the artist-nature , technique , magic , guilt and suffering , are divided in this story between Jacoby and Lautner .
cg15.27.1	post-adv	That this abandonment takes place on a stage , during an ' artistic ' performance , is enough to associate Jacoby with art , and to bring down upon him the punishment for art ; as is anyone in Mann 's stories who produces illusion , that is , he is suspect , guilty , punishable , and this is true even though the constant elements of the artist-nature , technique , magic , guilt and suffering , are divided in this story between Jacoby and Lautner .
cg15.27.2	post-adv	That this abandonment takes place on a stage , during an ' artistic ' performance , is enough to associate Jacoby with art , and to bring down upon him the punishment for art ; that is , he is suspect , guilty , punishable , as is anyone in Mann 's stories who produces illusion , and even though the constant elements of the artist-nature , technique , magic , guilt and suffering , are divided in this story between Jacoby and Lautner this is true .
cg15.27.3	post-adj2	That this abandonment takes place during an ' artistic ' performance , on a stage , is enough to associate Jacoby with art , and to bring down upon him the punishment for art ; that is , he is suspect , guilty , punishable , as is anyone in Mann 's stories who produces illusion , and this is true even though the constant elements of the artist-nature , technique , magic , guilt and suffering , are divided in this story between Jacoby and Lautner .
cg15.37.0	ref	As the first sentence suggests , both roads belong to death in the end .
cg15.37.1	pre-adv	Both roads belong to death in the end , as the first sentence suggests .
cg15.37.2	post-adj2	As the first sentence suggests , both roads belong in the end to death .
cg15.38.0	ref	But the highroad , according to the description of its traffic , belongs to life as it is lived in unawareness of death , while the way to the churchyard belongs to some other sort of life : a suffering form , an existence wholly comprised in the awareness of death .
cg15.38.1	post-adv	While the way to the churchyard belongs to some other sort of life : a suffering form , an existence wholly comprised in the awareness of death , but the highroad , according to the description of its traffic , belongs to life as it is lived in unawareness of death .
cg15.39.0	ref	Thus , on the highroad , a troop of soldiers `` marched in their own dust and sang '' , while on the footpath one man walks alone .
cg15.39.1	pre-adj2	On the highroad , thus , a troop of soldiers `` marched in their own dust and sang '' , while on the footpath one man walks alone .
cg15.39.2	post-adv	While on the footpath one man walks alone , thus , on the highroad , a troop of soldiers `` marched in their own dust and sang '' .
cg15.43.0	ref	This strange person quarrels with a cyclist because the latter is using the path rather than the highroad .
cg15.43.1	post-adv	Because the latter is using the path rather than the highroad this strange person quarrels with a cyclist .
cg15.44.0	ref	The cyclist , a sufficiently commonplace young fellow , is not named but identified simply as `` Life '' -- that and a license number , which Piepsam uses in addressing him .
cg15.44.1	post-adj2	The cyclist , a sufficiently commonplace young fellow , is not named but identified as `` Life '' -- that and a license number , which Piepsam uses in addressing him simply .
cg15.46.0	ref	Piepsam tries to stop him by force , receives a push in the chest from `` Life '' , and is left standing in impotent and growing rage , while a crowd begins to gather .
cg15.46.1	post-adv	Piepsam tries to stop him by force , receives a push in the chest from `` Life '' , and , while a crowd begins to gather , is left standing in impotent and growing rage .
cg15.52.0	ref	Piepsam 's fatal rage arises not only because he can not stop the cyclist , but also because God will not stop him ; as Piepsam says to the crowd in his last moments : `` His justice is not of this world '' .
cg15.52.1	post-adv	Not only because he can not stop the cyclist , but also because God will not stop him Piepsam 's fatal rage arises ; as Piepsam says to the crowd in his last moments : `` His justice is not of this world '' .
cg15.52.2	pre-adv	Piepsam 's fatal rage arises not only because he can not stop the cyclist , but also because God will not stop him : `` His justice is not of this world as Piepsam says to the crowd in his last moments '' .
cg15.52.3	post-adj2	Piepsam 's fatal rage arises not only because he can not stop the cyclist , but also because God will not stop him ; as Piepsam says in his last moments to the crowd : `` His justice is not of this world '' .
cg15.56.0	ref	Piepsam is not , certainly , religious in any conventional sense .
cg15.56.1	post-adj2	Piepsam is not , in any conventional sense , religious certainly .
cg15.64.0	ref	And if I have gone into so much detail about so small a work , that is because it is also so typical a work , representing the germinal form of a conflict which remains essential in Mann 's writing : the crude sketch of Piepsam contains , in its critical , destructive and self-destructive tendencies , much that is enlarged and illuminated in the figures of , for instance , Naphta and Leverkuhn .
cg15.64.1	pre-adv	And that is because it is also so typical a work , representing the germinal form of a conflict which remains essential in Mann 's writing : the crude sketch of Piepsam contains , in its critical , destructive and self-destructive tendencies , much that is enlarged and illuminated in the figures of , for instance , Naphta and Leverkuhn , if I have gone into so much detail about so small a work .
cg15.65.0	ref	In method as well as in theme this little anecdote with its details selected as much for expressiveness and allegory as for `` realism '' , anticipates a kind of musical composition , as well as a kind of fictional composition , in which , as Leverkuhn says , `` there shall be nothing unthematic '' .
cg15.65.1	pre-adv	In method as well as in theme this little anecdote with its details selected as much for expressiveness and allegory as for `` realism '' , anticipates a kind of musical composition , as well as a kind of fictional composition , in which , `` there shall be nothing unthematic , as Leverkuhn says '' .
cg15.65.2	post-adj2	In method as well as in theme this little anecdote with its details selected as much as for `` realism '' for expressiveness and allegory , anticipates a kind of musical composition , as well as a kind of fictional composition , in which , as Leverkuhn says , `` there shall be nothing unthematic '' .
cg16.8.0	ref	All such imitations of negative quality have given rise to a compensatory response in the form of a heroic and highly individualistic humanism : if man can neither know nor love reality as it is , he can at least invent an artistic `` reality '' which is its own world and which can speak to man of purely personal and subjective qualities capable of being known and worthy of being loved .
cg16.8.1	post-adv	All such imitations of negative quality have given rise to a compensatory response in the form of a heroic and highly individualistic humanism : if man as it is can neither know nor love reality , he can at least invent an artistic `` reality '' which is its own world and which can speak to man of purely personal and subjective qualities capable of being known and worthy of being loved .
cg16.8.2	pre-adv	All such imitations of negative quality have given rise to a compensatory response in the form of a heroic and highly individualistic humanism : he can at least invent an artistic `` reality '' which is its own world and which can speak to man of purely personal and subjective qualities capable of being known and worthy of being loved , if man can neither know nor love reality as it is .
cg16.8.3	post-adj2	All such imitations of negative quality have given rise in the form of a heroic and highly individualistic humanism to a compensatory response : if man can neither know nor love reality as it is , he can at least invent an artistic `` reality '' which is its own world and which can speak to man of purely personal and subjective qualities capable of being known and worthy of being loved .
cg16.11.0	ref	Without the decay of a sense of objective reference -LRB- except as the imitation of mystery -RRB- , the stress on subjective invention would never have been stimulated into being .
cg16.11.1	pre-adj2	Except as the imitation of mystery -LRB- without the decay of a sense of objective reference -RRB- , the stress on subjective invention would never have been stimulated into being .
cg16.12.0	ref	And although these insights into the nature of art may be in themselves insufficient for a thoroughgoing philosophy of art , their peculiar authenticity in this day and age requires that they be taken seriously and gives promise that from their very substance , new and valid chapters in the philosophy of art may be written .
cg16.12.1	pre-adv	And their peculiar authenticity in this day and age requires that they be taken seriously and gives promise that from their very substance , new and valid chapters in the philosophy of art may be written , although these insights into the nature of art may be in themselves insufficient for a thoroughgoing philosophy of art .
cg16.17.0	ref	Accordingly , it is the aim of this essay to advance a new theory of imitation -LRB- which I shall call mimesis in order to distinguish it from earlier theories of imitation -RRB- and a new theory of invention -LRB- which I shall call symbol for reasons to be stated hereafter -RRB- .
cg16.17.1	post-adv	Accordingly , it is the aim of this essay to advance a new theory of imitation -LRB- which I in order to distinguish it from earlier theories of imitation shall call mimesis -RRB- and a new theory of invention -LRB- which I shall call symbol for reasons to be stated hereafter -RRB- .
cg16.22.0	ref	In Plato 's judgment , the arts play a meaningful role in society only in the education of the young , prior to the full development of their intellectual powers .
cg16.22.1	post-adj3	In Plato 's judgment , the arts play a meaningful role only in the education of the young in society , prior to the full development of their intellectual powers .
cg16.22.2	post-adj3	In Plato 's judgment , the arts play a meaningful role prior to the full development of their intellectual powers only in the education of the young , in society .
cg16.22.3	post-adj3	In Plato 's judgment , the arts play a meaningful role in society prior to the full development of their intellectual powers , only in the education of the young .
cg16.22.4	post-adj3	In Plato 's judgment , the arts play a meaningful role , prior to the full development of their intellectual powers , in society only in the education of the young .
cg16.22.5	post-adj3	In Plato 's judgment , the arts play a meaningful role only in the education of the young , prior to the full development of their intellectual powers in society .
cg16.25.0	ref	The Poetics , in affirming that all human arts are `` modes of imitation '' , gives a more serious role to artistic mimesis than did Plato .
cg16.25.1	dat-np-pp	The Poetics , in affirming that all human arts are `` modes of imitation '' , gives artistic mimesis a more serious role than did Plato .
cg16.26.0	ref	But Aristotle kept the principle of levels and even augmented it by describing in the Poetics what kinds of character and action must be imitated if the play is to be a vehicle of serious and important human truths .
cg16.26.1	post-adv	But Aristotle kept the principle of levels and even augmented it by describing in the Poetics what kinds of character and action must if the play is to be a vehicle of serious and important human truths be imitated .
cg16.40.0	ref	They bring an inextricable component of value within themselves , with attractions and repulsions native to their own quality .
cg16.40.1	post-adj2	They bring an inextricable component of value with attractions and repulsions native to their own quality , within themselves .
cg16.41.0	ref	As in experience one is seized by given entities and their interrelations and is forced to respond in value feelings to them , so one is similarly seized in the mimetic presentation of images .
cg16.41.1	pre-adv	So one is similarly seized in the mimetic presentation of images , as in experience one is seized by given entities and their interrelations and is forced to respond in value feelings to them .
cg16.42.0	ref	Mimesis here is not to be confused with literalism or realism in the conventional sense .
cg16.42.1	post-adj2	Mimesis here is not to be confused in the conventional sense with literalism or realism .
cg16.44.0	ref	Similarly experience itself can be conventionalized so that people react to certain preconceived clues for behavior without awareness of the vitality of their experiential field .
cg16.44.1	post-adv	Similarly experience itself can so that people react to certain preconceived clues for behavior without awareness of the vitality of their experiential field be conventionalized .
cg16.44.2	post-adj3	Similarly experience itself can be conventionalized so that people react for behavior to certain preconceived clues without awareness of the vitality of their experiential field .
cg16.44.3	post-adj3	Similarly experience itself can be conventionalized so that people react without awareness of the vitality of their experiential field for behavior to certain preconceived clues .
cg16.44.4	post-adj3	Similarly experience itself can be conventionalized so that people react to certain preconceived clues without awareness of the vitality of their experiential field for behavior .
cg16.44.5	post-adj3	Similarly experience itself can be conventionalized so that people react without awareness of the vitality of their experiential field to certain preconceived clues for behavior .
cg16.44.6	post-adj3	Similarly experience itself can be conventionalized so that people react for behavior without awareness of the vitality of their experiential field to certain preconceived clues .
cg16.45.0	ref	A truly vivid imagination moves beyond the conventional recollection to a sense of immediacy .
cg16.45.1	post-adj2	A truly vivid imagination moves to a sense of immediacy beyond the conventional recollection .
cg16.47.0	ref	When words can be used in a more fresh and primitive way so that they strike with the force of sights and sounds , when tones of sound and colors of paint and the carven shape all strike the sensibilities with an undeniable force of data in and of themselves , compelling the observer into an attitude of attention , all this imitates the way experience itself in its deepest character strikes upon the door of consciousness and clamors for entrance .
cg16.47.1	post-adv	When words can so that they strike with the force of sights and sounds be used in a more fresh and primitive way , when tones of sound and colors of paint and the carven shape all strike the sensibilities with an undeniable force of data in and of themselves , compelling the observer into an attitude of attention , all this imitates the way experience itself in its deepest character strikes upon the door of consciousness and clamors for entrance .
cg16.47.2	pre-adv	All this imitates the way experience itself in its deepest character strikes upon the door of consciousness and clamors for entrance , when words can be used in a more fresh and primitive way so that they strike with the force of sights and sounds , when tones of sound and colors of paint and the carven shape all strike the sensibilities with an undeniable force of data in and of themselves , compelling the observer into an attitude of attention .
cg16.49.0	ref	The presence of genuine mimesis in art is marked by the persistence with which the work demands attention and compels valuation even though it is but vaguely understood .
cg16.49.1	post-adv	The presence of genuine mimesis in art is marked by the persistence with which even though it is but vaguely understood the work demands attention and compels valuation .
cg16.50.0	ref	Underlying these conceptions of mimesis are certain presuppositions concerning the nature of primary human experience which require some exposition before the main argument can proceed .
cg16.50.1	post-adv	Underlying these conceptions of mimesis are certain presuppositions concerning the nature of primary human experience which before the main argument can proceed require some exposition .
cg16.51.0	ref	Experience is not seen , as it is in classical rationalism , as presenting us initially with clear and distinct objects simply located in space and registering their character , movements , and changes on the tabula rasa of an uninvolved intellect .
cg16.51.1	post-adv	Experience , as it is in classical rationalism , is not seen as presenting us initially with clear and distinct objects simply located in space and registering their character , movements , and changes on the tabula rasa of an uninvolved intellect .
cg16.61.0	ref	We feel the quality of these powers initially as in some degree wholesome or threatening .
cg16.61.1	post-adj2	We feel the quality of these powers as in some degree wholesome or threatening initially .
cg16.66.0	ref	As long as perception is seen as composed only of isolated sense data , most of the quality and interconnectedness of existence loses its objectivity , becomes an invention of consciousness , and the result is a philosophical scepticism .
cg16.66.1	post-adv	As long as perception as composed only of isolated sense data is seen , most of the quality and interconnectedness of existence loses its objectivity , becomes an invention of consciousness , and the result is a philosophical scepticism .
cg16.66.2	post-adj2	As long as perception is seen as composed of isolated sense data only , most of the quality and interconnectedness of existence loses its objectivity , becomes an invention of consciousness , and the result is a philosophical scepticism .
cg16.67.0	ref	Whitehead contends that the human way of understanding existence as a unity of interlocking and interdependent processes which constitute each other and which cause each other to be and not to be is possible only because the basic form of such an understanding , for all its vagueness and tendency to mistake the detail , is initially given in the way man feels the world .
cg16.67.1	post-adv	Whitehead contends that only because the basic form of such an understanding , for all its vagueness and tendency to mistake the detail , is initially given in the way man feels the world the human way of understanding existence as a unity of interlocking and interdependent processes which constitute each other and which cause each other to be and not to be is possible .
cg17.1.0	ref	After only eighteen years of non-interference , there were already indications of melioration , though `` in a slight degree '' , to be sure .
cg17.1.1	post-adv	Though `` in a slight degree '' , to be sure , after only eighteen years of non-interference , there were already indications of melioration .
cg17.6.0	ref	But with the renewal of interference in 1954 -LRB- as with its beginning in 1835 -RRB- , the improvement was impaired .
cg17.6.1	pre-adj2	But as with its beginning in 1835 -LRB- with the renewal of interference in 1954 -RRB- , the improvement was impaired .
cg17.8.0	ref	It 's infuriating , this feeling that one is being picked on , continually , constantly .
cg17.8.1	post-adj2	It 's infuriating , this feeling that one is being picked continually , constantly , on .
cg17.10.0	ref	The traditional strategy of the South has been to expose the vices of the North , to demonstrate that the North possessed no superior virtue , to `` show the world that '' as James 's Christopher Newman said to his adversaries -RRB- `` however bad I may be , you 're not quite the people to say it '' .
cg17.10.1	pre-adv	The traditional strategy of the South has been to expose the vices of the North , to demonstrate that the North possessed no superior virtue , to `` show the world that '' however bad I may be , you 're not quite the people to say it , as James 's Christopher Newman said to his adversaries -RRB- `` '' .
cg17.10.2	pre-adv	The traditional strategy of the South has been to expose the vices of the North , to demonstrate that the North possessed no superior virtue , to `` show the world that '' as James 's Christopher Newman said to his adversaries -RRB- you 're not quite the people to say it `` however bad I may be '' .
cg17.12.0	ref	At the present time , the counter-attack takes the line that there 's no more of the true spirit of `` integration '' in the North than in the South .
cg17.12.1	post-adj2	At the present time , the counter-attack takes the line that there 's no more of the true spirit of `` integration '' than in the South in the North .
cg17.17.0	ref	I was having lunch not long ago -LRB- apologies to N.V. Peale -RRB- with three distinguished historians -LRB- one specializing in the European Middle Ages , one in American history , and one in the Far East -RRB- , and I asked them if they could name instances where the general mores had been radically changed with `` deliberate speed , majestic instancy '' -LRB- Francis Thompson 's words for the Hound Of Heaven 's Pursuit -RRB- by judicial fiat .
cg17.17.1	post-adj2	I was having lunch with three distinguished historians -LRB- one specializing in the European Middle Ages , one in American history , and one in the Far East -RRB- -LRB- apologies to N.V. Peale -RRB- not long ago , and I asked them if they could name instances where the general mores had been radically changed with `` deliberate speed , majestic instancy '' -LRB- Francis Thompson 's words for the Hound Of Heaven 's Pursuit -RRB- by judicial fiat .
cg17.29.0	ref	Calhoun dealt with this question in his `` Disquisition On Government '' .
cg17.29.1	post-adj2	Calhoun dealt in his `` Disquisition On Government '' with this question .
cg17.37.0	ref	One can meet with aloofness almost anywhere : the THIDIU viewpoint , It Does n't Affect Us !
cg17.37.1	post-adj2	One can meet almost anywhere with aloofness : the THIDIU viewpoint , It Does n't Affect Us !
cg17.38.0	ref	Southern Liberals -LRB- there are a good many -RRB- -- especially if they 're rich -- often exhibit blithe insouciance .
cg17.38.1	pre-adv	Southern Liberals -LRB- there are a good many -RRB- often exhibit blithe insouciance -- especially if they 're rich .
cg17.39.0	ref	The trouble here is that it 's almost too easy to take the high moral ground when it does n't cost you anything .
cg17.39.1	dat-np-np	The trouble here is that it 's almost too easy to take the high moral ground when it does n't cost anything to you .
cg17.39.2	post-adv	The trouble here is that when it does n't cost you anything it 's almost too easy to take the high moral ground .
cg17.41.0	ref	If there 's no suitable academy in your own neighborhood , there 's always New England .
cg17.41.1	pre-adv	There 's always New England , if there 's no suitable academy in your own neighborhood .
cg17.43.0	ref	They may even enroll a colored student or two for show , though he usually turns out to be from Thailand , or any place other than the American South .
cg17.43.1	post-adv	They , though he usually turns out to be from Thailand , or any place other than the American South , may even enroll a colored student or two for show .
cg17.45.0	ref	A recent newspaper report said there were five Negroes in the 1960 graduating class of nearly one thousand at Yale ; that is , about one-half of one per cent , which looks pretty `` tokenish '' to me , especially in an institution which professes to be `` national '' .
cg17.45.1	post-adj2	A recent newspaper report said there were five Negroes at Yale in the 1960 graduating class of nearly one thousand ; that is , about one-half of one per cent , which looks pretty `` tokenish '' to me , especially in an institution which professes to be `` national '' .
cg17.51.0	ref	Well , after everybody has followed the New England pattern of segregating one 's children into private schools , only the poor folks are left .
cg17.51.1	pre-adv	Well only the poor folks are left , after everybody has followed the New England pattern of segregating one 's children into private schools .
cg17.62.0	ref	Lincoln understood this better than most when he said in his `` Second Inaugural '' that God `` gives to both North and South this terrible war , as the woe due to those by whom the offense came '' .
cg17.62.1	post-adv	When he said in his `` Second Inaugural '' that God `` gives to both North and South this terrible war , as the woe due to those by whom the offense came Lincoln understood this better than most '' .
cg17.65.0	ref	After how many generations is such wealth -LRB- mounting all the while through the manipulations of high finance -RRB- purified of taint ?
cg17.65.1	post-adj2	After how many generations is such wealth -LRB- mounting through the manipulations of high finance all the while -RRB- purified of taint ?
cg17.68.0	ref	The slaves never shared in their profits , while they did share , in a very real sense , in the profits of the slave-owners : they were fed , clothed , doctored , and so forth ; they were the beneficiaries of responsible , paternalistic care .
cg17.68.1	post-adv	While they did share , in a very real sense , in the profits of the slave-owners : they were fed , clothed , doctored , and so forth ; they were the beneficiaries of responsible , paternalistic care , the slaves never shared in their profits .
cg17.74.0	ref	It ignores the sordid financial aspects -LRB- quite conveniently , too , for his audience , who could indulge in moral indignation without visible , or even conscious , discomfort , their money from the transaction having been put away long ago in a good antiseptic brokerage -RRB- .
cg17.74.1	post-adj3	It ignores the sordid financial aspects -LRB- too , quite conveniently , for his audience , who could indulge in moral indignation without visible , or even conscious , discomfort , their money from the transaction having been put away long ago in a good antiseptic brokerage -RRB- .
cg17.74.2	post-adj3	It ignores the sordid financial aspects -LRB- for his audience , who could indulge in moral indignation without visible , or even conscious , discomfort , their money from the transaction having been put away long ago in a good antiseptic brokerage , too , quite conveniently -RRB- .
cg17.74.3	post-adj3	It ignores the sordid financial aspects -LRB- quite conveniently , for his audience , who could indulge in moral indignation without visible , or even conscious , discomfort , their money from the transaction having been put away long ago in a good antiseptic brokerage , too -RRB- .
cg17.74.4	post-adj3	It ignores the sordid financial aspects -LRB- for his audience , who could indulge in moral indignation without visible , or even conscious , discomfort , their money from the transaction having been put away long ago in a good antiseptic brokerage , quite conveniently , too .
cg17.74.5	post-adj3	It ignores the sordid financial aspects too , for his audience , who could indulge in moral indignation without visible , or even conscious , discomfort , their money from the transaction having been put away long ago in a good antiseptic brokerage -LRB- quite conveniently -RRB- .
cg17.77.0	ref	Can God be mocked , ever , in the long run ?
cg17.77.1	post-adj2	Can God be mocked , in the long run , ever ?
cg17.78.0	ref	New Englanders were a bit sensitive on the subject of their complicity in Negro slavery at the time of the drafting of the Declaration of Independence , as Jefferson explained in his `` Autobiography '' : `` The clause reprobating the enslaving the inhabitants of Africa was struck out in complaisance to South Carolina and Georgia , who had never attempted to restrain the importation of slaves , and who on the contrary still wished to continue it .
cg17.78.1	post-adv	As Jefferson explained in his `` Autobiography '' , New Englanders were a bit sensitive on the subject of their complicity in Negro slavery at the time of the drafting of the Declaration of Independence : `` The clause reprobating the enslaving the inhabitants of Africa was struck out in complaisance to South Carolina and Georgia , who had never attempted to restrain the importation of slaves , and who on the contrary still wished to continue it .
cg17.79.0	ref	Our Northern brethren also I believe felt a little tender under those censures ; for though their people had very few slaves themselves , yet they had been pretty considerable carriers of them to others '' .
cg17.79.1	pre-adv	Our Northern brethren also I believe felt a little tender under those censures ; for yet they had been pretty considerable carriers of them to others , though their people had very few slaves themselves '' .
cg17.82.0	ref	George W. Cable -LRB- naturalized New Englander -RRB- , writing in 1889 from `` Paradise Road , Northampton '' -LRB- lovely symbolic name -RRB- , agitated continuously the `` Southern question '' .
cg17.82.1	post-adj2	George W. Cable -LRB- naturalized New Englander -RRB- , writing from `` Paradise Road , Northampton '' -LRB- lovely symbolic name -RRB- in 1889 , agitated continuously the `` Southern question '' .
cg17.84.0	ref	New England , as everyone knows , has long been schoolmaster to the Nation .
cg17.84.1	pre-adv	New England has long been schoolmaster to the Nation , as everyone knows .
cg17.87.0	ref	It is true that New England , more than any other section , was dedicated to education from the start .
cg17.87.1	post-adj2	It is true that New England , more than any other section , was dedicated from the start to education .
cg17.89.0	ref	How did it happen , for example , that the state university , that great symbol of American democracy , failed to flourish in New England as it did in other parts of the country ?
cg17.89.1	post-adv	How did it happen , for example , that the state university , that great symbol of American democracy , failed as it did in other parts of the country to flourish in New England ?
cg17.94.0	ref	A Yale historian , writing a few years ago in The Yale Review , said : `` We in New England have long since segregated our children '' .
cg17.94.1	post-adj2	A Yale historian , writing in The Yale Review a few years ago , said : `` We in New England have long since segregated our children '' .
cg18.5.0	ref	Heidenstam was born in 1859 , of a prosperous family .
cg18.5.1	post-adj2	Heidenstam was born of a prosperous family , in 1859 .
cg18.7.0	ref	The family estate was situated near Vadstena on Lake Vattern in south central Sweden .
cg18.7.1	post-adj3	The family estate was situated on Lake Vattern near Vadstena in south central Sweden .
cg18.7.2	post-adj3	The family estate was situated in south central Sweden on Lake Vattern near Vadstena .
cg18.7.3	post-adj3	The family estate was situated near Vadstena in south central Sweden on Lake Vattern .
cg18.7.4	post-adj3	The family estate was situated in south central Sweden near Vadstena on Lake Vattern .
cg18.7.5	post-adj3	The family estate was situated on Lake Vattern in south central Sweden near Vadstena .
cg18.11.0	ref	Being somewhat delicate in health , at the age of sixteen he was sent to Southern Europe , for which he at once developed a passion , so that he spent nearly all of the following ten years abroad , at first in Italy , then in Greece , Egypt , Asia Minor , and Palestine .
cg18.11.1	post-adv	Being somewhat delicate in health , at the age of sixteen he was sent to Southern Europe , for which , so that he spent nearly all of the following ten years abroad , at first in Italy , then in Greece , Egypt , Asia Minor , and Palestine , he at once developed a passion .
cg18.14.0	ref	He gives us an account of this in his lively and humorous poem , `` The Happy Artists '' .
cg18.14.1	dat-np-np	He gives an account of this to us in his lively and humorous poem , `` The Happy Artists '' .
cg18.16.0	ref	I looked unceasingly With my cold mind and with my burning heart '' .
cg18.16.1	post-adj2	I looked with my cold mind and with my burning heart unceasingly '' .
cg18.22.0	ref	It was a brilliant debut , so much so indeed that it aroused a new vitality in the younger poets , as did Byron 's Childe Harold .
cg18.22.1	post-adv	It was a brilliant debut , so much so indeed that , as did Byron 's Childe Harold , it aroused a new vitality in the younger poets .
cg18.23.0	ref	Professor Fredrik Book , Sweden 's foremost critic of the period , acclaims it as follows : `` In this we have the verse of a painter ; strongly colorful , plastic , racy , vivid .
cg18.23.1	post-adv	As follows Professor Fredrik Book , Sweden 's foremost critic of the period , acclaims it : `` In this we have the verse of a painter ; strongly colorful , plastic , racy , vivid .
cg18.34.0	ref	The short poems grouped at the end of the volume as `` Thoughts in Loneliness '' is , as Professor Book indicated , in sharp contrast with the others .
cg18.34.1	post-adv	As Professor Book indicated , the short poems grouped at the end of the volume as `` Thoughts in Loneliness '' is in sharp contrast with the others .
cg18.34.2	post-adj2	The short poems grouped as `` Thoughts in Loneliness '' at the end of the volume is , as Professor Book indicated , in sharp contrast with the others .
cg18.42.0	ref	This restless individualism found its answer when he returned to live nearly all the rest of his life in Sweden .
cg18.42.1	post-adv	When he returned to live nearly all the rest of his life in Sweden this restless individualism found its answer .
cg18.47.0	ref	He is driven back by his yearning to the wintry homeland of his fathers in the forest of Tiveden '' .
cg18.47.1	post-adj3	He is driven by his yearning back to the wintry homeland of his fathers in the forest of Tiveden '' .
cg18.47.2	post-adj3	He is driven to the wintry homeland of his fathers in the forest of Tiveden by his yearning back '' .
cg18.47.3	post-adj3	He is driven back to the wintry homeland of his fathers in the forest of Tiveden by his yearning '' .
cg18.47.4	post-adj3	He is driven to the wintry homeland of his fathers in the forest of Tiveden back by his yearning '' .
cg18.47.5	post-adj3	He is driven by his yearning to the wintry homeland of his fathers in the forest of Tiveden back '' .
cg18.53.0	ref	Strindberg 's remedy for this condition was to tear down the old structures and build anew from the ground up .
cg18.53.1	post-adj2	Strindberg 's remedy for this condition was to tear down the old structures and build from the ground up anew .
cg18.55.0	ref	Whether in prose or poetry , all of Heidenstam 's later work was concerned with Sweden .
cg18.55.1	pre-adv	All of Heidenstam 's later work was concerned with Sweden , whether in prose or poetry .
cg18.59.0	ref	Though it centers around the brilliant and enigmatic figure of Charles 12 , the true hero is not finally the king himself .
cg18.59.1	pre-adv	The true hero is not finally the king himself , though it centers around the brilliant and enigmatic figure of Charles 12 .
cg18.67.0	ref	His peculiar gift , as had been suggested before , is his intensity .
cg18.67.1	pre-adv	His peculiar gift is his intensity , as had been suggested before .
cg18.72.0	ref	His ideal was Alexander of Macedon , as Napoleon 's was Julius Caesar .
cg18.72.1	post-adv	As Napoleon 's was Julius Caesar , his ideal was Alexander of Macedon .
cg18.75.0	ref	Each failed catastrophically in an invasion of Russia and each brought ruin on the country that worshipped him .
cg18.75.1	post-adj2	Each failed in an invasion of Russia catastrophically and each brought ruin on the country that worshipped him .
cg18.78.0	ref	After the collapse of that desperate and ill-fated campaign the character of the king degenerated for a time into a futility that was not merely pitiable but often ridiculous .
cg18.78.1	post-adj2	After the collapse of that desperate and ill-fated campaign the character of the king degenerated into a futility that was not merely pitiable but often ridiculous for a time .
cg18.80.0	ref	There are , however , some wonderful chapters at the beginning of the second part , concerning the reactions of the Swedes in adversity .
cg18.80.1	post-adj2	There are , at the beginning of the second part , some wonderful chapters however , concerning the reactions of the Swedes in adversity .
cg18.86.0	ref	But he plunges into yet another , this time with Norway , and is killed in an assault on the fortress of Fredrikshall , being only thirty-six years of age when he died .
cg18.86.1	post-adv	But he plunges into yet another , this time with Norway , and is killed in an assault on the fortress of Fredrikshall , when he died being only thirty-six years of age .
cg18.88.0	ref	Then suddenly there was a tremendous revulsion of popular feeling .
cg18.88.1	pre-adj2	Suddenly then there was a tremendous revulsion of popular feeling .
cg18.93.0	ref	As he had longed to be , he became the echo of a saga .
cg18.93.1	pre-adv	He became the echo of a saga , as he had longed to be .
cg18.98.0	ref	Some of the earlier episodes have touches of the supernatural , as suited to the legendary background .
cg18.98.1	post-adv	As suited to the legendary background , some of the earlier episodes have touches of the supernatural .
cg19.3.0	ref	The mythological private eye differs from his counterpart in real life in two essential ways .
cg19.3.1	post-adj2	The mythological private eye differs in two essential ways from his counterpart in real life .
cg19.8.0	ref	Whatever his original assignment , the fictional private eye ends up by investigating and solving a crime , usually a murder .
cg19.8.1	pre-adv	The fictional private eye ends up by investigating and solving a crime , usually a murder , whatever his original assignment .
cg19.9.0	ref	Operating as a one man police force in fact if not in name , he is at once more independent and more dedicated than the police themselves .
cg19.9.1	pre-adv	Operating as a one man police force in fact he is at once more independent and more dedicated than the police themselves , if not in name .
cg19.10.0	ref	He catches criminals not merely because he is paid to do so -LRB- frequently he does not receive a fee at all -RRB- , but because he enjoys his work , because he firmly believes that murder must be punished .
cg19.10.1	post-adv	Not merely because he is paid to do so -LRB- frequently he does not receive a fee at all -RRB- , but because he enjoys his work , because he firmly believes that murder must be punished he catches criminals .
cg19.15.0	ref	At the same time , because the personal code of the detective coincides with the legal dictates of his society , because he likes to catch criminals , he is in middle class eyes a virtuous man .
cg19.15.1	pre-adv	At the same time he is in middle class eyes a virtuous man , because the personal code of the detective coincides with the legal dictates of his society , because he likes to catch criminals .
cg19.19.0	ref	In the mystery story , as in The Wealth of Nations , individualism and the social good are two sides of the same benevolent coin .
cg19.19.1	pre-adj2	As in The Wealth of Nations , in the mystery story , individualism and the social good are two sides of the same benevolent coin .
cg19.23.0	ref	Now , although the roots of the mystery story in serious literature go back as far as Balzac , Dickens , and Poe , it was not until the closing decades of the 19th century that the private detective became an established figure in popular fiction .
cg19.23.1	pre-adv	Now it was not until the closing decades of the 19th century that the private detective became an established figure in popular fiction , although the roots of the mystery story in serious literature go back as far as Balzac , Dickens , and Poe .
cg19.23.2	post-adj2	Now , although the roots of the mystery story in serious literature go as far as Balzac , Dickens , and Poe back , it was not until the closing decades of the 19th century that the private detective became an established figure in popular fiction .
cg19.25.0	ref	Thus the transformation of Adam Smith 's ideal entrepreneur into a mythological detective coincides closely with the decline of the real entrepreneur in economic life .
cg19.25.1	post-adj2	Thus the transformation of Adam Smith 's ideal entrepreneur into a mythological detective coincides with the decline of the real entrepreneur in economic life closely .
cg19.26.0	ref	Driven from the marketplace by the course of history , our hero disguises himself as a private detective .
cg19.26.1	post-adj2	Driven by the course of history from the marketplace , our hero disguises himself as a private detective .
cg19.28.0	ref	Even on the fictional level , however , the contradictions which give rise to the mystery story are not fully resolved .
cg19.28.1	pre-adj2	However , even on the fictional level , the contradictions which give rise to the mystery story are not fully resolved .
cg19.33.0	ref	As capitalism in the 20th century has become increasingly dependent upon force and violence for its survival , the private detective is placed in a serious dilemma .
cg19.33.1	pre-adv	The private detective is placed in a serious dilemma , as capitalism in the 20th century has become increasingly dependent upon force and violence for its survival .
cg19.34.0	ref	If he is good , he may not be legal ; if he is legal , he may not be good .
cg19.34.1	pre-adv	He may not be legal , if he is good ; if he is legal , he may not be good .
cg19.34.2	pre-adv	If he is good , he may not be legal ; he may not be good , if he is legal .
cg19.40.0	ref	Holmes rebels against the social conventions of his day not on moral but rather on aesthetic grounds .
cg19.40.1	post-adj2	Holmes rebels not on moral but rather on aesthetic grounds against the social conventions of his day .
cg19.43.0	ref	As he informs Watson , `` My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence .
cg19.43.1	pre-adv	`` My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence , as he informs Watson .
cg19.47.0	ref	Although he is perfectly willing to cooperate with Scotland Yard , Holmes has nothing but contempt for the intelligence and mentality of the police .
cg19.47.1	pre-adv	Holmes has nothing but contempt for the intelligence and mentality of the police , although he is perfectly willing to cooperate with Scotland Yard .
cg19.51.0	ref	Another , more interesting explanation , is hinted at by Watson when he observes on several occasions that Holmes would have made a magnificent criminal .
cg19.51.1	post-adv	Another , more interesting explanation , when he observes on several occasions that Holmes would have made a magnificent criminal is hinted at by Watson .
cg19.51.2	post-adj2	Another , more interesting explanation , is hinted by Watson at when he observes on several occasions that Holmes would have made a magnificent criminal .
cg19.54.0	ref	The two men resemble each other closely in their cunning , their egotism , their relentlessness .
cg19.54.1	post-adj2	The two men resemble each other in their cunning , their egotism , their relentlessness closely .
cg19.56.0	ref	They are presumed to have plunged to a common grave in this fatal embrace .
cg19.56.1	post-adj2	They are presumed to have plunged in this fatal embrace to a common grave .
cg19.57.0	ref	Linked to Holmes even in death , Moriarty represents the alter-ego of the great detective , the image of what our hero might have become were he not a public servant .
cg19.57.1	post-adv	Linked to Holmes even in death , Moriarty represents the alter-ego of the great detective , the image of what our hero might were he not a public servant have become .
cg19.57.2	post-adj2	Linked even in death to Holmes , Moriarty represents the alter-ego of the great detective , the image of what our hero might have become were he not a public servant .
cg19.58.0	ref	Just as Holmes the eccentric stands behind Holmes the detective , so Holmes the potential criminal lurks behind both .
cg19.58.1	pre-adv	So Holmes the potential criminal lurks behind both , just as Holmes the eccentric stands behind Holmes the detective .
cg19.67.0	ref	Surrounded by crime and violence everywhere , the `` hardboiled '' private eye can retain his purity only through a life of self-imposed isolation .
cg19.67.1	post-adj2	Surrounded everywhere by crime and violence , the `` hardboiled '' private eye can retain his purity only through a life of self-imposed isolation .
cg19.77.0	ref	Sam Spade joins forces with a band of adventurers in search of a priceless jeweled statue of a falcon ; but when the bird is found at last , it turns out to be a fake .
cg19.77.1	pre-adv	Sam Spade joins forces with a band of adventurers in search of a priceless jeweled statue of a falcon ; but it turns out to be a fake , when the bird is found at last .
cg19.80.0	ref	Because the private eye intends to save society in spite of himself , he invariably finds himself in trouble with the police .
cg19.80.1	pre-adv	He invariably finds himself in trouble with the police , because the private eye intends to save society in spite of himself .
cg19.85.0	ref	But even when the police are honest , they do not trust the private eye .
cg19.85.1	pre-adv	But they do not trust the private eye , even when the police are honest .
cg19.88.0	ref	In order to exonerate himself , he is compelled to find the real criminal , who happens to be his girl friend .
cg19.88.1	pre-adv	He is compelled to find the real criminal , who happens to be his girl friend , in order to exonerate himself .
cg19.93.0	ref	If the detective insists upon retaining his personal standards , he must now do so in conscious defiance of his society .
cg19.93.1	pre-adv	He must now do so in conscious defiance of his society , if the detective insists upon retaining his personal standards .
cg19.95.0	ref	On the other hand , if he wishes to continue in his chosen profession , he must abandon his own code and sacrifice his precious individualism .
cg19.95.1	pre-adv	On the other hand he must abandon his own code and sacrifice his precious individualism , if he wishes to continue in his chosen profession .
cg19.98.0	ref	In order to save the mystery story , they have converted the private detective into an organization man .
cg19.98.1	pre-adv	They have converted the private detective into an organization man , in order to save the mystery story .
cg19.102.0	ref	He kills when he pleases , takes his women where he finds them and always acts as judge , jury and executioner rolled into one .
cg19.102.1	post-adv	He when he pleases kills , takes his women where he finds them and always acts as judge , jury and executioner rolled into one .
cg20.1.0	ref	It will be shown that the objectives of the cooperative people in an organization determine the type of network required , because the type of network functions according to the characteristics of the messages enumerated in Table 1 .
cg20.1.1	post-adv	It will , because the type of network functions according to the characteristics of the messages enumerated in Table 1 , be shown that the objectives of the cooperative people in an organization determine the type of network required .
cg20.6.0	ref	This sentence would have most of the characteristics of a question , but it has some of the characteristics of a statement because the questioner has conveyed the fact that he has no faith in his own timepiece or the one attached to his car .
cg20.6.1	post-adv	This sentence would have most of the characteristics of a question , but because the questioner has conveyed the fact that he has no faith in his own timepiece or the one attached to his car it has some of the characteristics of a statement .
cg20.7.0	ref	If the man on the sidewalk is surprised at this question , it has served as an exclamation .
cg20.7.1	pre-adv	It has served as an exclamation , if the man on the sidewalk is surprised at this question .
cg20.8.0	ref	Also , since the man questioned feels a strong compulsion to answer -LRB- and thereby avoid the consequences of being thought queer -RRB- the question has assumed some measurable properties of a command .
cg20.8.1	pre-adv	Also the question has assumed some measurable properties of a command , since the man questioned feels a strong compulsion to answer -LRB- and thereby avoid the consequences of being thought queer -RRB- .
cg20.9.0	ref	However , for convenience we will stick to the idea that information can be classified according to Table 1 .
cg20.9.1	pre-adj2	For convenience , however we will stick to the idea that information can be classified according to Table 1 .
cg20.15.0	ref	Since the air is a continuum , the network of communication remains intact regardless of the positions or motions of the points -LRB- the people -RRB- in the net .
cg20.15.1	pre-adv	The network of communication remains intact regardless of the positions or motions of the points -LRB- the people -RRB- in the net , since the air is a continuum .
cg20.16.0	ref	As shown in Figure 1 , there is a connection for communication between every pair of points .
cg20.16.1	pre-adv	There is a connection for communication between every pair of points , as shown in Figure 1 .
cg20.18.0	ref	All four types of message listed in Table 1 are permitted , although decorum and cocktail tradition require holding the commands to a minimum , while exclamations having complimentary intonations are more than customarily encouraged .
cg20.18.1	post-adv	All four types of message listed in Table 1 , although decorum and cocktail tradition require holding the commands to a minimum , are permitted while exclamations having complimentary intonations are more than customarily encouraged .
cg20.18.2	post-adv	All four types of message listed in Table 1 , while exclamations having complimentary intonations are more than customarily encouraged , are permitted , although decorum and cocktail tradition require holding the commands to a minimum .
cg20.22.0	ref	In spite of the dreams of the host for oneness in the group , the incoming messages for each guest overload his receiving system beyond comprehension if N exceeds about six .
cg20.22.1	post-adv	If N exceeds about six in spite of the dreams of the host for oneness in the group , the incoming messages for each guest overload his receiving system beyond comprehension .
cg20.23.0	ref	The crowd consequently breaks up into temporary groups ranging in size from two to six , with a half-life for the cluster ranging from three to twenty minutes .
cg20.23.1	post-adj2	The crowd consequently breaks up with a half-life for the cluster ranging from three to twenty minutes , into temporary groups ranging in size from two to six .
cg20.24.0	ref	For the occasion on which everyone already knows everyone else and the host wishes them to meet one or a few honored newcomers , then the `` open house '' system is advantageous because the honored guests are fixed connective points and the drifting guests make and break connections at the door .
cg20.24.1	pre-adj2	Then , for the occasion on which everyone already knows everyone else and the host wishes them to meet one or a few honored newcomers the `` open house '' system is advantageous because the honored guests are fixed connective points and the drifting guests make and break connections at the door .
cg20.24.2	post-adv	Because the honored guests are fixed connective points and the drifting guests make and break connections at the door for the occasion on which everyone already knows everyone else and the host wishes them to meet one or a few honored newcomers , then the `` open house '' system is advantageous .
cg20.27.0	ref	We assume for this illustration that the size of the land plots is so great that the distance between dwellings is greater than the voice can carry and that most of the communication is between nearest neighbors only , as shown in Figure 2 .
cg20.27.1	post-adv	We assume for this illustration that the size of the land plots is so great that the distance between dwellings is greater than the voice can carry and that , as shown in Figure 2 , most of the communication is between nearest neighbors only .
cg20.28.0	ref	Information beyond nearest neighbor is carried second - , third - , and fourth-hand as a distortable rumor .
cg20.28.1	post-adj2	Information beyond nearest neighbor is carried as a distortable rumor second - , third - , and fourth-hand .
cg20.32.0	ref	In any social system in which communications have an importance comparable with that of production and other human factors , a point like f in Figure 2 would -LRB- other things being equal -RRB- be the dwelling place for the community leader , while e and h would house the next most important citizens .
cg20.32.1	post-adv	In any social system in which communications have an importance comparable with that of production and other human factors , a point like f in Figure 2 , while e and h would house the next most important citizens , would -LRB- other things being equal -RRB- be the dwelling place for the community leader .
cg20.35.0	ref	Since the hazards of poor communication are so great , p can be justified as a habitable site only on the basis of unusual productivity such as is made available by a waterfall for milling purposes , a mine , or a sugar maple camp .
cg20.35.1	pre-adv	P can be justified as a habitable site only on the basis of unusual productivity such as is made available by a waterfall for milling purposes , a mine , or a sugar maple camp , since the hazards of poor communication are so great .
cg20.35.2	post-adj2	Since the hazards of poor communication are so great , p can be justified only on the basis of unusual productivity such as is made available by a waterfall for milling purposes , a mine , or a sugar maple camp as a habitable site .
cg20.36.0	ref	Location theorists have given these matters much consideration .
cg20.36.1	dat-np-np	Location theorists have given much consideration to these matters .
cg20.41.0	ref	The need for monitoring became greater when radio was adopted for military signaling .
cg20.41.1	post-adv	When radio was adopted for military signaling the need for monitoring became greater .
cg20.43.0	ref	As time has passed and science has progressed , the speed of military vehicles has increased , the range of missiles has been extended , the use of target-hunting noses on the projectiles has been adopted , and the range and breadth of message sending has increased .
cg20.43.1	pre-adv	The speed of military vehicles has increased , as time has passed and science has progressed , the range of missiles has been extended , the use of target-hunting noses on the projectiles has been adopted , and the range and breadth of message sending has increased .
cg20.48.0	ref	Commands go only from an officer to the man of nearest lower rank .
cg20.48.1	post-adj2	Commands go from an officer to the man of nearest lower rank only .
cg20.54.0	ref	This monitoring is necessary because , on a parade ground , everyone can hear too much , and without monitoring a confused social event would develop .
cg20.54.1	post-adv	Because , on a parade ground , everyone can hear too much , and without monitoring a confused social event would develop this monitoring is necessary .
cg20.60.0	ref	This objective is adhered to throughout the duration of the action .
cg20.60.1	post-adj2	This objective is adhered throughout the duration of the action to .
cg20.62.0	ref	The assumptions upon which the example shown in Figure 3 is based are : -LRB- A -RRB- One man can direct about six subordinates if the subordinates are chosen carefully so that they do not need too much personal coaching , indoctrinating , etc. . -LRB- B -RRB- A message runs too great a risk of being distorted if it is to be relayed more than about six consecutive times . -LRB- C -RRB- Decisions of a general kind are made by the central command . And -LRB- D -RRB- all action of a physical kind pertinent to the mission is relegated to the line of men on the lower rank .
cg20.62.1	post-adv	The assumptions upon which the example shown in Figure 3 is based are : -LRB- A -RRB- One man if the subordinates are chosen carefully so that they do not need too much personal coaching , indoctrinating , etc. can direct about six subordinates . -LRB- B -RRB- A message runs too great a risk of being distorted if it is to be relayed more than about six consecutive times . -LRB- C -RRB- Decisions of a general kind are made by the central command . And -LRB- D -RRB- all action of a physical kind pertinent to the mission is relegated to the line of men on the lower rank .
cg20.62.2	post-adv	The assumptions upon which the example shown in Figure 3 is based are : -LRB- A -RRB- One man can direct about six subordinates if the subordinates so that they do not need too much personal coaching , indoctrinating , etc. are chosen carefully . -LRB- B -RRB- A message runs too great a risk of being distorted if it is to be relayed more than about six consecutive times . -LRB- C -RRB- Decisions of a general kind are made by the central command . And -LRB- D -RRB- all action of a physical kind pertinent to the mission is relegated to the line of men on the lower rank .
cg20.62.3	post-adv	The assumptions upon which the example shown in Figure 3 is based are : -LRB- A -RRB- One man can direct about six subordinates if the subordinates are chosen carefully so that they do not need too much personal coaching , indoctrinating , etc. . if it is to be relayed more than about six consecutive times -LRB- B -RRB- A message runs too great a risk of being distorted . -LRB- C -RRB- Decisions of a general kind are made by the central command . And -LRB- D -RRB- all action of a physical kind pertinent to the mission is relegated to the line of men on the lower rank .
cg20.63.0	ref	These assumptions lead to an organization with one man at the top , six directly under him , six under each of these , and so on until there are six levels of personnel .
cg20.63.1	post-adv	Until there are six levels of personnel these assumptions lead to an organization with one man at the top , six directly under him , six under each of these , and so on .
cg20.64.0	ref	The number of people acting as one body by this scheme gives a surprisingly large army of 55,987 men .
cg20.64.1	post-adj2	The number of people acting by this scheme as one body gives a surprisingly large army of 55,987 men .
cg20.65.0	ref	This organizational network would be of no avail if there were no regulations pertaining to the types of message sent .
cg20.65.1	post-adv	This organizational network if there were no regulations pertaining to the types of message sent would be of no avail .
cg20.74.0	ref	This is an unsolved problem which probably has never been seriously investigated , although one frequently hears the comment that we have insufficient specialists of the kind who can compete with the Germans or Swiss , for example , in precision machinery and mathematics , or the Finns in geochemistry .
cg20.74.1	post-adv	Although one frequently hears the comment that we have insufficient specialists of the kind who can compete with the Germans or Swiss , for example , in precision machinery and mathematics , or the Finns in geochemistry , this is an unsolved problem which probably has never been seriously investigated .
cg20.77.0	ref	Since the difficulty of drawing the net is great , we will merely discuss it .
cg20.77.1	pre-adv	We will merely discuss it , since the difficulty of drawing the net is great .
cg20.81.0	ref	So we see that a specialist is a man who knows more and more about less and less as he develops , as contrasted to the generalist , who knows less and less about more and more .
cg20.81.1	post-adv	So we see that a specialist is a man who as he develops knows more and more about less and less , as contrasted to the generalist , who knows less and less about more and more .
cg20.81.2	post-adv	So we see that , as contrasted to the generalist , who knows less and less about more and more , a specialist is a man who knows more and more about less and less as he develops .
cg21.12.0	ref	Some fourteen or fifteen years ago , in an essay I called The Leader Follows -- Where ? I used his polarity to illustrate what I thought had happened to us in that form of liberalism we call Progressivism .
cg21.12.1	pre-adj2	In an essay I called The Leader Follows -- Where ? some fourteen or fifteen years ago I used his polarity to illustrate what I thought had happened to us in that form of liberalism we call Progressivism .
cg21.12.2	post-adj2	Some fourteen or fifteen years ago , in an essay I called The Leader Follows -- Where ? I used his polarity to illustrate what I thought had happened in that form of liberalism we call Progressivism to us .
cg21.15.0	ref	It is a weakness of Gabriel 's analysis that he never seems to realize that his so-called fundamental law had already been cut loose from its foundations when it was adapted to democracy .
cg21.15.1	post-adv	It is a weakness of Gabriel 's analysis that he never seems to realize that his so-called fundamental law had already when it was adapted to democracy been cut loose from its foundations .
cg21.18.0	ref	During the decade that followed , the common man , as that piece put it , grew uncomfortable as the Voice of God and fled from behind Saint Woodrow -LRB- Wilson -RRB- only to learn from Science , to his shocked relief that after all there was no God he had to speak for and that he was just an animal anyhow -- that there was a chemical formula for him , and that too much could n't be expected of him .
cg21.18.1	pre-adv	During the decade that followed , the common man grew uncomfortable as the Voice of God and fled from behind Saint Woodrow -LRB- Wilson -RRB- only to learn from Science , to his shocked relief that after all there was no God he had to speak for and that he was just an animal anyhow -- that there was a chemical formula for him , and that too much could n't be expected of him , as that piece put it .
cg21.21.0	ref	French Egalitarianism had had only nominal influence in this country before the days of Popularism .
cg21.21.1	post-adj2	French Egalitarianism had had only nominal influence before the days of Popularism in this country .
cg21.24.0	ref	Moreover the centralization of our economy during the 1920s , the dislocations of the Depression , the common ethos of Materialism everywhere , all contributed in various ways to the face-lifting that replaced Mike Fink and the Great Gatsby with the anonymous physiognomy of the Little People .
cg21.24.1	post-adj2	Moreover the centralization of our economy during the 1920s , the dislocations of the Depression , the common ethos of Materialism everywhere , all contributed to the face-lifting that replaced Mike Fink and the Great Gatsby with the anonymous physiognomy of the Little People in various ways .
cg21.27.0	ref	Yet , after Rousseau had given the social contract a new twist with his notion of the General Will , the same philosophy , it may be said , became the idea source of the French Revolution also .
cg21.27.1	dat-np-np	Yet , after Rousseau had given a new twist to the social contract with his notion of the General Will , the same philosophy , it may be said , became the idea source of the French Revolution also .
cg21.27.2	pre-adv	Yet the same philosophy , it may be said , became the idea source of the French Revolution also , after Rousseau had given the social contract a new twist with his notion of the General Will .
cg21.29.0	ref	This notion of the General Will gave rise to the Commune of Paris in the Revolution and later brought Napoleon to dictatorship .
cg21.29.1	post-adj2	This notion of the General Will gave rise in the Revolution to the Commune of Paris and later brought Napoleon to dictatorship .
cg21.30.0	ref	And it is clearly argued by Lord Percy of Newcastle , in his remarkable long essay , The Heresy Of Democracy , and in a more general way by Voegelin , in his New Science Of Politics , that this same Rousseauan idea , descending through European democracy , is the source of Marx 's theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat .
cg21.30.1	post-adj2	And it is clearly argued in his remarkable long essay , The Heresy Of Democracy , by Lord Percy of Newcastle and in a more general way by Voegelin , in his New Science Of Politics , that this same Rousseauan idea , descending through European democracy , is the source of Marx 's theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat .
cg21.31.0	ref	This is important to understanding the position that doctrinaire liberals found themselves in after World War 2 , and our great democratic victory that brought no peace .
cg21.31.1	post-adj2	This is important to understanding the position that doctrinaire liberals found themselves after World War 2 in , and our great democratic victory that brought no peace .
cg21.35.0	ref	We will recall that the still confident liberals of the Truman administration gathered with other Western utopians in San Francisco to set up the legal framework , finally and at last , to rationalize war -- to rationalize want and fear -- out of the world : the United Nations .
cg21.35.1	post-adj2	We will recall that the still confident liberals of the Truman administration gathered in San Francisco with other Western utopians to set up the legal framework , finally and at last , to rationalize war -- to rationalize want and fear -- out of the world : the United Nations .
cg21.37.0	ref	Then suddenly we found ourselves in the middle of another fight , an irrational , an indecent , an undeclared and immoral war with our strongest -LRB- and some had thought noblest -RRB- ally .
cg21.37.1	pre-adj2	Suddenly then we found ourselves in the middle of another fight , an irrational , an indecent , an undeclared and immoral war with our strongest -LRB- and some had thought noblest -RRB- ally .
cg21.43.0	ref	A perceptive journalist , Sam Lubell , has phrased it in the title of one of his books as the revolt of the moderates .
cg21.43.1	post-adj2	A perceptive journalist , Sam Lubell , has phrased it as the revolt of the moderates in the title of one of his books .
cg21.44.0	ref	He opens his discourse , however , with a review of the Eisenhower inaugural festivities at which a sympathetic press had assembled its massive talents , all primed to catch some revelation of the emerging new age .
cg21.44.1	post-adj2	He opens his discourse , with a review of the Eisenhower inaugural festivities at which a sympathetic press had assembled its massive talents , all primed to catch some revelation of the emerging new age , however .
cg21.57.0	ref	Though , to be sure , we gave Kennedy no very positive approval in the margin of his preferment .
cg21.57.1	dat-np-np	Though , to be sure , we gave no very positive approval to Kennedy in the margin of his preferment .
cg21.59.0	ref	But before I try to diagnose it , I would offer other evidence .
cg21.59.1	pre-adv	But I would offer other evidence , before I try to diagnose it .
cg21.61.0	ref	The earlier of them was an unofficial enterprise , sponsored by Life magazine , under the title of The National Purpose .
cg21.61.1	post-adj2	The earlier of them was an unofficial enterprise , sponsored under the title of The National Purpose , by Life magazine .
cg21.66.0	ref	Its refrain was : `` let us return to the individualistic democracy of our forefathers for our salvation '' .
cg21.66.1	post-adj2	Its refrain was : `` let us return for our salvation to the individualistic democracy of our forefathers '' .
cg21.72.0	ref	They , perhaps , gave the pitch of their position in the preface where it was said that Eisenhower requested that the Commission be administered by the American Assembly of Columbia University , because it was non-partisan .
cg21.72.1	post-adv	They , perhaps , gave the pitch of their position in the preface where it was said that Eisenhower requested that the Commission , because it was non-partisan , be administered by the American Assembly of Columbia University .
cg21.74.0	ref	And here again we hear the same refrain mentioned above : `` the paramount goal of the United States set long ago was to guard the rights of the individual , ensure his development , enlarge his opportunity '' .
cg21.74.1	pre-adj2	And again here we hear the same refrain mentioned above : `` the paramount goal of the United States set long ago was to guard the rights of the individual , ensure his development , enlarge his opportunity '' .
cg21.76.0	ref	But it is the need to undertake these testaments that I would submit here as symptom of the common man 's malaise .
cg21.76.1	post-adj2	But it is the need to undertake these testaments that I would submit as symptom of the common man 's malaise here .
cg21.77.0	ref	And let me add Murray 's new book as another symptom of it , particularly so in view of the attention Time magazine gave it when it came out recently .
cg21.77.1	post-adv	And let me add Murray 's new book as another symptom of it , particularly so in view of the attention when it came out recently Time magazine gave it .
cg21.78.0	ref	Father Murray goes back to the Declaration of Independence , too , though I may add , with considerably more historical perception .
cg21.78.1	post-adj3	Father Murray goes too , back to the Declaration of Independence , though I may add , with considerably more historical perception .
cg21.78.2	post-adj3	Father Murray goes though I may add , with considerably more historical perception , too , back to the Declaration of Independence .
cg21.78.3	post-adj3	Father Murray goes back to the Declaration of Independence , though I may add , with considerably more historical perception , too .
cg21.78.4	post-adj3	Father Murray goes , though I may add , with considerably more historical perception , back to the Declaration of Independence , too .
cg21.78.5	post-adj3	Father Murray goes too , though I may add , with considerably more historical perception , back to the Declaration of Independence .
cg21.79.0	ref	I will reserve discussion of it for a moment , however , to return to President Kennedy .
cg21.79.1	post-adj2	I will reserve discussion of it however , for a moment , to return to President Kennedy .
cg21.84.0	ref	Has not that way been lit always by the lamp of liberalism up until the turning back under Eisenhower ?
cg21.84.1	post-adj3	Has not that way been lit by the lamp of liberalism always up until the turning back under Eisenhower ?
cg21.84.2	post-adj3	Has not that way been lit up until the turning back under Eisenhower by the lamp of liberalism always ?
cg21.84.3	post-adj3	Has not that way been lit always up until the turning back under Eisenhower by the lamp of liberalism ?
cg21.84.4	post-adj3	Has not that way been lit up until the turning back under Eisenhower always by the lamp of liberalism ?
cg21.84.5	post-adj3	Has not that way been lit by the lamp of liberalism up until the turning back under Eisenhower always ?
cg21.86.0	ref	Ralph Gabriel gave it the name of Protestant philosophy of Progress .
cg21.86.1	dat-np-np	Ralph Gabriel gave the name of Protestant philosophy of Progress to it .
cg22.7.0	ref	In any event , whether society may have cancer , or merely a virus infection , the `` disease '' , we shall find , is political , economical , social , and even medical .
cg22.7.1	pre-adv	In any event the `` disease '' , we shall find , is political , economical , social , and even medical , whether society may have cancer , or merely a virus infection .
cg22.9.0	ref	Hence the prime issue , as I see it , is whether a democratic or free society can master technology for the benefit of mankind , or whether technology will rule and develop its own society compatible with its own needs as a force of nature .
cg22.9.1	pre-adv	Hence the prime issue is whether a democratic or free society can master technology for the benefit of mankind , or whether technology will rule and develop its own society compatible with its own needs as a force of nature , as I see it .
cg22.12.0	ref	We have proved so able to solve technological problems that to contend we can not realize a universal goal in the immediate future is to be extremely shortsighted , if nothing else .
cg22.12.1	post-adv	We have proved so able to solve technological problems that to contend we can not realize a universal goal in the immediate future is , if nothing else , to be extremely shortsighted .
cg22.14.0	ref	So in these pages the term `` technology '' is used to include any and all means which could amplify , project , or augment man 's control over himself and over other men .
cg22.14.1	pre-adj2	In these pages so the term `` technology '' is used to include any and all means which could amplify , project , or augment man 's control over himself and over other men .
cg22.17.0	ref	If we were creating a wholly new society , we could insist that our social , political , economic and philosophic institutions foster rather than hamper man ; best growth .
cg22.17.1	pre-adv	We could insist that our social , political , economic and philosophic institutions foster rather than hamper man , if we were creating a wholly new society ; best growth .
cg22.20.0	ref	Asked which institution most needs correction , I would say the corporation as it exists in America today .
cg22.20.1	post-adj2	Asked which institution most needs correction , I would say the corporation as it exists today in America .
cg22.23.0	ref	In a book review of `` The Soviet Cultural Offensive '' , he says , `` Long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive within Soviet borders , the sharp cutting-edge of American culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes , as when the enterprising promoters of ' Porgy And Bess ' overrode the State Department to carry the contemporary ' cultural warfare ' behind the enemy lines .
cg22.23.1	post-adv	Long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive within Soviet borders , in a book review of `` The Soviet Cultural Offensive '' , he says , `` the sharp cutting-edge of American culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes , as when the enterprising promoters of ' Porgy And Bess ' overrode the State Department to carry the contemporary ' cultural warfare ' behind the enemy lines .
cg22.23.2	post-adv	In a book review of `` The Soviet Cultural Offensive '' , he says , `` Long before in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive within Soviet borders the State Department organized its bureaucracy into an East-West Contacts Staff , the sharp cutting-edge of American culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes , as when the enterprising promoters of ' Porgy And Bess ' overrode the State Department to carry the contemporary ' cultural warfare ' behind the enemy lines .
cg22.23.3	post-adv	In a book review of `` The Soviet Cultural Offensive '' , he says , `` Long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive within Soviet borders , the sharp cutting-edge of American culture when the enterprising promoters of ' Porgy And Bess ' overrode the State Department to carry the contemporary ' cultural warfare ' behind the enemy lines had carved its mark across the Russian steppes , as .
cg22.23.4	pre-adv	In a book review of `` The Soviet Cultural Offensive '' , he says , `` the sharp cutting-edge of American culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes , as when the enterprising promoters of ' Porgy And Bess ' overrode the State Department to carry the contemporary ' cultural warfare ' behind the enemy lines , long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive within Soviet borders .
cg22.25.0	ref	Their kind created an American culture superior to any in the world , an industrial and technological culture which penetrated Russia as it did almost every corner of the earth without a nickel from the Federal treasury or a single governmental specialist to contrive directives or program a series of consultations of interested agencies .
cg22.25.1	post-adv	Their kind created an American culture superior to any in the world , an industrial and technological culture which as it did almost every corner of the earth penetrated Russia without a nickel from the Federal treasury or a single governmental specialist to contrive directives or program a series of consultations of interested agencies .
cg22.26.0	ref	This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is still there despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda '' corporations now outmoded .
cg22.26.1	post-adj3	This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is there still despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda '' corporations now outmoded .
cg22.26.2	post-adj3	This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda there still '' corporations now outmoded .
cg22.26.3	post-adj3	This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is still despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda there '' corporations now outmoded .
cg22.26.4	post-adj3	This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda '' still there corporations now outmoded .
cg22.26.5	post-adj3	This favorable image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is there despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda still '' corporations now outmoded .
cg22.29.0	ref	But even if we can not see the repulsive characteristics in this new image of America , foreigners can ; and our loss of `` prestige '' abroad is the direct result .
cg22.29.1	pre-adv	But foreigners can , even if we can not see the repulsive characteristics in this new image of America ; and our loss of `` prestige '' abroad is the direct result .
cg22.31.0	ref	If we want respect from ourselves or others , we will have to earn it .
cg22.31.1	pre-adv	We will have to earn it , if we want respect from ourselves or others .
cg22.32.0	ref	First , let us realize that whatever good this set-up achieved in earlier times , now the corporation per se can not take economic leadership .
cg22.32.1	pre-adv	First , let us realize that now the corporation per se can not take economic leadership , whatever good this set-up achieved in earlier times .
cg22.34.0	ref	When we `` forced '' individuals to assume the corporate structure by means of taxes and other legal statutes , we adopted what I would term `` pseudo-capitalism '' and so took a major step toward socialism .
cg22.34.1	pre-adv	We adopted what I would term `` pseudo-capitalism '' and so took a major step toward socialism , when we `` forced '' individuals to assume the corporate structure by means of taxes and other legal statutes .
cg22.37.0	ref	But let us not complain of the evils of capitalism by referring to a form that is not truly capitalistic .
cg22.37.1	post-adj2	But let us not complain by referring to a form that is not truly capitalistic of the evils of capitalism .
cg22.45.0	ref	But while the corporation has all the disadvantages of the socialist form of organization -LRB- so cumbersome it can not constructively do much of anything not compatible with its need to perpetuate itself and maintain its status quo -RRB- , unluckily it does not have the desirable aspect of socialism , the motivation to operate for the benefit of society as a whole .
cg22.45.1	pre-adv	But unluckily it does not have the desirable aspect of socialism , the motivation to operate for the benefit of society as a whole , while the corporation has all the disadvantages of the socialist form of organization -LRB- so cumbersome it can not constructively do much of anything not compatible with its need to perpetuate itself and maintain its status quo -RRB- .
cg22.50.0	ref	Thus , if corporations are not to run away with us , they must become quasi-governmental institutions , subject to public control and needs .
cg22.50.1	pre-adv	Thus they must become quasi-governmental institutions , subject to public control and needs , if corporations are not to run away with us .
cg22.50.2	post-adj2	Thus , if corporations are not to run with us away , they must become quasi-governmental institutions , subject to public control and needs .
cg22.56.0	ref	Corporations react violently to short-range stimuli , e.g. , quarterly and annual dividend reports .
cg22.56.1	post-adj2	Corporations react to short-range stimuli , e.g. , quarterly and annual dividend reports violently .
cg22.61.0	ref	Leadership is lacking in our society because it has no legitimate place to develop .
cg22.61.1	post-adv	Leadership because it has no legitimate place to develop is lacking in our society .
cg22.62.0	ref	Men continuously at the head of growing enterprises can acquire experiences of the most varied , complicated and trying type so that at maturation they have developed the competence and willingness to accept the personal responsibility so sorely needed now .
cg22.62.1	post-adv	Men continuously at the head of growing enterprises so that at maturation they have developed the competence and willingness to accept the personal responsibility so sorely needed now can acquire experiences of the most varied , complicated and trying type .
cg22.63.0	ref	Hence government must establish greater controls upon corporations so that their activities promote what is deemed essential to the national interest .
cg22.63.1	post-adv	Hence government so that their activities promote what is deemed essential to the national interest must establish greater controls upon corporations .
cg22.68.0	ref	When the proprietor dies , the establishment should become a corporation until it is either acquired by another proprietor or the government decides to drop it .
cg22.68.1	post-adv	When the proprietor dies , the establishment until it is either acquired by another proprietor or the government decides to drop it should become a corporation .
cg22.68.2	pre-adv	The establishment should become a corporation until it is either acquired by another proprietor or the government decides to drop it , when the proprietor dies .
cg22.69.0	ref	Strikes should be declared illegal against corporations because disagreements would have to be settled by government representatives acting as controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would now be defined against proprietorship because employees and proprietors must be completely interdependent , as they are each a part of the whole .
cg22.69.1	post-adv	Strikes should because disagreements would have to be settled by government representatives acting as controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would now be defined against proprietorship because employees and proprietors must be completely interdependent , as they are each a part of the whole be declared illegal against corporations .
cg22.69.2	post-adv	Strikes should be declared illegal against corporations because disagreements would have to be settled by government representatives acting as controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would now because employees and proprietors must be completely interdependent , as they are each a part of the whole be defined against proprietorship .
cg22.69.3	post-adv	Strikes should be declared illegal against corporations because disagreements would have to be settled by government representatives acting as controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would now be defined against proprietorship because employees and proprietors , as they are each a part of the whole , must be completely interdependent .
cg22.70.0	ref	Strikes threatening the security of the proprietorship , if internally motivated , prevent a healthy relationship .
cg22.70.1	pre-adv	Strikes threatening the security of the proprietorship prevent a healthy relationship , if internally motivated .
cg22.71.0	ref	Certainly external forces should not be applied arbitrarily out of mere power available to do so .
cg22.71.1	post-adj2	Certainly external forces should not be applied out of mere power available to do so arbitrarily .
cg22.74.0	ref	These proposals would go far toward creating the economic atmosphere favoring growth of the individual , who , in turn , would help us to cope with runaway technology .
cg22.74.1	post-adj2	These proposals would go toward creating the economic atmosphere favoring growth of the individual , who , in turn , would help us to cope with runaway technology far .
cg22.80.0	ref	Also , I am convinced that if my company were a sole proprietorship instead of a partnership , I would have been even abler to solve long-range problems for myself and my fellow-employees .
cg22.80.1	pre-adv	Also , I am convinced that I would have been even abler to solve long-range problems for myself and my fellow-employees , if my company were a sole proprietorship instead of a partnership .
cg22.81.0	ref	Any abilities I may have were achieved in their present shape from experience in sharing in the growth and control of my business , coupled with raising my family .
cg22.81.1	post-adj2	Any abilities I may have were achieved from experience in sharing in the growth and control of my business , coupled with raising my family in their present shape .
cg22.82.0	ref	This combined experience , on a foundation of very average , I assure you , intelligence and background , has helped me do things many well-informed people would bet heavily against .
cg22.82.1	post-adj2	This combined experience , on a foundation of very average , I assure you , intelligence and background , has helped me do things many well-informed people would bet against heavily .
cg22.85.0	ref	From an initial investment of $ 1,200 in 1943 , it has grown , with no additional capital investment , to a present value estimated by some as exceeding $ 10,000,000 -LRB- we do n't disclose financial figures to the public -RRB- .
cg22.85.1	post-adj2	From an initial investment of $ 1,200 in 1943 , it has grown , to a present value estimated by some as exceeding $ 10,000,000 , with no additional capital investment -LRB- we do n't disclose financial figures to the public -RRB- .
cg22.86.0	ref	Its growth continues steadily on a par with past growth ; and no limitation is in evidence .
cg22.86.1	post-adj2	Its growth continues on a par with past growth steadily ; and no limitation is in evidence .
cg22.87.0	ref	Our pin-curl clips and self-locking nuts achieved dominance in just a few years time , despite substantial , well established competition .
cg22.87.1	post-adj2	Our pin-curl clips and self-locking nuts achieved dominance despite substantial , well established competition , in just a few years time .
cg23.2.0	ref	Many Americans reacted irrationally to the challenge of Russia and turned to the repression of ideas by force .
cg23.2.1	post-adj2	Many Americans reacted to the challenge of Russia irrationally and turned to the repression of ideas by force .
cg23.4.0	ref	Attorney General Palmer made a series of raids that sent more than 4,000 so-called radicals to the jails , in direct violation of their constitutional rights .
cg23.4.1	post-adj2	Attorney General Palmer made a series of raids that sent more than 4,000 so-called radicals in direct violation of their constitutional rights , to the jails .
cg23.5.0	ref	Then , not many years later , the Un-American Activities Committee , under the leadership of Martin Dies , pilloried hundreds of decent , patriotic citizens .
cg23.5.1	pre-adj2	Not many years later , then , the Un-American Activities Committee , under the leadership of Martin Dies , pilloried hundreds of decent , patriotic citizens .
cg23.12.0	ref	They seem to believe that a person will act automatically as soon as he contacts something new .
cg23.12.1	post-adj2	They seem to believe that a person will act as soon as he contacts something new automatically .
cg23.13.0	ref	Hence , the only defensible procedure is to repress any and every notion , unless it gives evidence that it is perfectly safe .
cg23.13.1	post-adv	Hence , the only defensible procedure is , unless it gives evidence that it is perfectly safe , to repress any and every notion .
cg23.14.0	ref	Despite this danger , however , we are informed on every hand that ideas , not machines , are our finest tools ; they are priceless even though they can not be recorded on a ledger page ; they are the most valuable of commodities -- and the most salable , for their demand far exceeds supply .
cg23.14.1	pre-adj2	However , despite this danger , we are informed on every hand that ideas , not machines , are our finest tools ; they are priceless even though they can not be recorded on a ledger page ; they are the most valuable of commodities -- and the most salable , for their demand far exceeds supply .
cg23.14.2	post-adv	Despite this danger , however , we are informed on every hand that ideas , not machines , are our finest tools ; even though they can not be recorded on a ledger page they are priceless ; they are the most valuable of commodities -- and the most salable , for their demand far exceeds supply .
cg23.17.0	ref	That , however , may also bring the police , if the thinking does not meet with social approval .
cg23.17.1	post-adv	That , however , if the thinking does not meet with social approval , may also bring the police .
cg23.23.0	ref	An inmate , a former university professor , expounded to us , logically and clearly , that someone was pilfering his thoughts .
cg23.23.1	post-adj2	An inmate , a former university professor , expounded logically and clearly , to us , that someone was pilfering his thoughts .
cg23.24.0	ref	He appealed to us to bring his case to the attention of the authorities that justice might be done .
cg23.24.1	post-adv	That justice might be done he appealed to us to bring his case to the attention of the authorities .
cg23.27.0	ref	But have we not gone overboard in stressing their significance ?
cg23.27.1	post-adj2	But have we not gone in stressing their significance overboard ?
cg23.36.0	ref	Shakespeare gives us a vivid picture of Shylock , but probably he never saw a Jew , unless in some of his travels .
cg23.36.1	dat-np-np	Shakespeare gives a vivid picture of Shylock to us , but probably he never saw a Jew , unless in some of his travels .
cg23.37.0	ref	The Jews had been banished from England in 1290 and were not permitted to return before 1655 , when Shakespeare had been dead for thirty-nine years .
cg23.37.1	post-adv	The Jews had been banished from England in 1290 and , when Shakespeare had been dead for thirty-nine years , were not permitted to return before 1655 .
cg23.37.2	post-adj2	The Jews had been banished in 1290 from England and were not permitted to return before 1655 , when Shakespeare had been dead for thirty-nine years .
cg23.38.0	ref	If any had escaped expulsion by hiding , they certainly would not frequent the market-place .
cg23.38.1	pre-adv	They certainly would not frequent the market-place , if any had escaped expulsion by hiding .
cg23.41.0	ref	He could learn at second hand from books , but could not thus capture the real Jewish spirit .
cg23.41.1	post-adj2	He could learn from books at second hand , but could not thus capture the real Jewish spirit .
cg23.50.0	ref	He sets him forth as being typical of the group .
cg23.50.1	post-adj2	He sets him as being typical of the group forth .
cg23.54.0	ref	If living Jews were unavailable for study , the Bible was at hand .
cg23.54.1	pre-adv	The Bible was at hand , if living Jews were unavailable for study .
cg23.57.0	ref	Studying The Merchant Of Venice in high school and college has given many young people their notions about Jews .
cg23.57.1	dat-np-np	Studying The Merchant Of Venice in high school and college has given their notions about Jews to many young people .
cg23.68.0	ref	But is that not like going to a chemistry laboratory and blindly pouring out liquids and powders from an array of bottles and then , after stirring , expecting a new wonder drug inevitably to result ?
cg23.68.1	pre-adv	But is that not like going to a chemistry laboratory and blindly pouring out liquids and powders from an array of bottles and then expecting a new wonder drug inevitably to result , after stirring ?
cg23.72.0	ref	The Leopard 's Spots came from the pen of Thomas Dixon in 1902 , and in this he announced an `` unchangeable '' law .
cg23.72.1	post-adj2	The Leopard 's Spots came in 1902 from the pen of Thomas Dixon , and in this he announced an `` unchangeable '' law .
cg23.73.0	ref	If a child had a single drop of Negro blood , he would revert to the ancestral line which , except as slaves under a superior race , had not made one step of progress in 3,000 years .
cg23.73.1	pre-adv	He would revert to the ancestral line which , except as slaves under a superior race , had not made one step of progress in 3,000 years , if a child had a single drop of Negro blood .
cg23.85.0	ref	Children , conditioned by this mistaken notion , have feared stepmothers , while adults , by their antagonistic attitudes , have made the role of the substitute parents a difficult one .
cg23.85.1	post-adv	Children , conditioned by this mistaken notion , while adults , by their antagonistic attitudes , have made the role of the substitute parents a difficult one , have feared stepmothers .
cg23.97.0	ref	When some question arises in the medical field concerning cancer , for instance , we do not turn to free and open discussion as in a political campaign .
cg23.97.1	pre-adv	We do not turn to free and open discussion as in a political campaign , when some question arises in the medical field concerning cancer , for instance .
cg23.105.0	ref	Assuredly in our political campaigns there is freedom to think , to examine any and all issues , and to speak without restraint .
cg23.105.1	pre-adj2	In our political campaigns assuredly there is freedom to think , to examine any and all issues , and to speak without restraint .
cg23.111.0	ref	If he had been `` liquidated '' in some way , he would have become a martyr , a rallying point for people who shared his ideas .
cg23.111.1	pre-adv	He would have become a martyr , a rallying point for people who shared his ideas , if he had been `` liquidated '' in some way .
cg23.114.0	ref	Debate rid us of McCarthy but did not give us much that is positive .
cg23.114.1	dat-np-np	Debate rid us of McCarthy but did not give much that is positive to us .
cg24.4.0	ref	These began to be apparent in a press conference held during the second illness in order that the consulting specialists might clarify the President 's condition for the nation .
cg24.4.1	post-adv	These began to be apparent in in order that the consulting specialists might clarify the President 's condition for the nation a press conference held during the second illness .
cg24.5.0	ref	And if Howard Rutstein felt impelled thereafter to formulate the ethics of the medical profession , his article in the Atlantic Monthly accomplished a good deal more .
cg24.5.1	pre-adv	And his article in the Atlantic Monthly accomplished a good deal more , if Howard Rutstein felt impelled thereafter to formulate the ethics of the medical profession .
cg24.8.0	ref	Because the responsibility for resolving the issue lay with the President , rather than with his doctors , nothing raises more surely for us the difficulties simple goodness faces in dealing with complex moral problems under political pressure .
cg24.8.1	pre-adv	Nothing raises more surely for us the difficulties simple goodness faces in dealing with complex moral problems under political pressure , because the responsibility for resolving the issue lay with the President , rather than with his doctors .
cg24.9.0	ref	For the President had dealt with the matter humbly , in what he conceived as the democratic way .
cg24.9.1	post-adj3	For the President had dealt humbly with the matter , in what he conceived as the democratic way .
cg24.9.2	post-adj3	For the President had dealt in what he conceived as the democratic way humbly , with the matter .
cg24.9.3	post-adj3	For the President had dealt with the matter in what he conceived as the democratic way , humbly .
cg24.9.4	post-adj3	For the President had dealt , in what he conceived as the democratic way , with the matter humbly .
cg24.9.5	post-adj3	For the President had dealt humbly , in what he conceived as the democratic way with the matter .
cg24.10.0	ref	But the problem is one which gives us the measure of a man , rather than a group of men , whether a group of doctors , a group of party members assembled at a dinner to give their opinion , or the masses of the voters .
cg24.10.1	dat-np-np	But the problem is one which gives the measure of a man , rather than a group of men , whether a group of doctors , a group of party members assembled at a dinner to give their opinion , or the masses of the voters to us .
cg24.11.0	ref	Any attempt to reconcile this statement of the central issue in the campaign of 1956 with the nature of the man who could not conceive it as the central issue will at least resolve our confusions about the chaotic and misleading results of the earnestness of both doctors and President in a situation which should never have arisen .
cg24.11.1	post-adj2	Any attempt to reconcile this statement of the central issue with the nature of the man who could not conceive it as the central issue in the campaign of 1956 will at least resolve our confusions about the chaotic and misleading results of the earnestness of both doctors and President in a situation which should never have arisen .
cg24.14.0	ref	And though we can look back now and see their errors , we can look back also to the ultimate error .
cg24.14.1	pre-adv	And we can look back also to the ultimate error , though we can look back now and see their errors .
cg24.14.2	post-adj2	And though we can look now back and see their errors , we can look back also to the ultimate error .
cg24.18.0	ref	He gave us a simile to explain his admission that even at the worst period of his second illness it never occurred to him there was any renewed question about his running : as in the Battle of the Bulge , he had no fears about the outcome until he read the American newspapers .
cg24.18.1	dat-np-np	He gave a simile to us to explain his admission that even at the worst period of his second illness it never occurred to him there was any renewed question about his running : as in the Battle of the Bulge , he had no fears about the outcome until he read the American newspapers .
cg24.18.2	post-adv	He gave us a simile to explain his admission that even at the worst period of his second illness it never occurred to him there was any renewed question about his running : until he read the American newspapers as in the Battle of the Bulge , he had no fears about the outcome .
cg24.19.0	ref	Yet the attitude that the fate of the Presidency demands in such a situation is quite distinct from the simple courage that can proceed with battles to be fought , regardless of the consequences .
cg24.19.1	post-adj2	Yet the attitude that the fate of the Presidency demands in such a situation is quite distinct from the simple courage that can proceed regardless of the consequences , with battles to be fought .
cg24.24.0	ref	Ironically enough , in this instance such personal virtues were a luxury .
cg24.24.1	pre-adj2	In this instance , Ironically enough such personal virtues were a luxury .
cg24.29.0	ref	Nothing testifies more clearly to that cleavage than the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of Life Magazine , the issue which also carried the second announcement of the candidacy .
cg24.29.1	post-adj3	Nothing testifies to that cleavage more clearly than the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of Life Magazine , the issue which also carried the second announcement of the candidacy .
cg24.29.2	post-adj3	Nothing testifies than the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of Life Magazine , the issue which also carried the second announcement of the candidacy to that cleavage more clearly .
cg24.29.3	post-adj3	Nothing testifies more clearly than the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of Life Magazine , the issue which also carried the second announcement of the candidacy to that cleavage .
cg24.29.4	post-adj3	Nothing testifies than the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of Life Magazine , the issue which also carried the second announcement of the candidacy more clearly to that cleavage .
cg24.29.5	post-adj3	Nothing testifies to that cleavage than the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of Life Magazine , the issue which also carried the second announcement of the candidacy more clearly .
cg24.31.0	ref	`` The Moral Creed '' and `` The Will To Risk '' live happily together , if we do not examine where the line is to be drawn .
cg24.31.1	post-adv	If we do not examine where the line is to be drawn , `` The Moral Creed '' and `` The Will To Risk '' live happily together .
cg24.31.2	post-adj2	`` The Moral Creed '' and `` The Will To Risk '' live together happily , if we do not examine where the line is to be drawn .
cg24.32.0	ref	`` I may possibly be a greater risk than is the normal person of my age '' , the President had said on February 29th of the election year , ignoring the fact that no one of his age had ever lived out another term .
cg24.32.1	quote	`` I may possibly be a greater risk than is the normal person of my age '' , had said the President on February 29th of the election year , ignoring the fact that no one of his age had ever lived out another term .
cg24.38.0	ref	No consideration of risk urges itself upon him now : for this is what the mind does with the ideas on which it has not properly focussed .
cg24.38.1	post-adj2	No consideration of risk urges itself now upon him : for this is what the mind does with the ideas on which it has not properly focussed .
cg24.40.0	ref	Moving as he is into the phase of the campaign which demands conviction of him , he adopts a position that is morally indefensible .
cg24.40.1	post-adv	As he is moving into the phase of the campaign which demands conviction of him , he adopts a position that is morally indefensible .
cg24.42.0	ref	What is simply an opinion formed in defiance of the laws of human probability , whether or not it is later confirmed , has become by September of the election year `` a firm conviction '' .
cg24.42.1	pre-adv	What is simply an opinion formed in defiance of the laws of human probability has become by September of the election year `` a firm conviction '' , whether or not it is later confirmed .
cg24.46.0	ref	In any other man this reassurance to the electorate would have caused us a profound moral shock .
cg24.46.1	dat-np-np	In any other man this reassurance to the electorate would have caused a profound moral shock to us .
cg24.51.0	ref	When the possibility that he had not given reconsideration to so weighty a decision seemed to disconcert his questioners , Mr. Eisenhower was known to make his characteristic statement to the press that he was not going to talk about the matter any more .
cg24.51.1	pre-adv	Mr. Eisenhower was known to make his characteristic statement to the press that he was not going to talk about the matter any more , when the possibility that he had not given reconsideration to so weighty a decision seemed to disconcert his questioners .
cg24.51.2	dat-np-pp	When the possibility that he had not given so weighty a decision reconsideration seemed to disconcert his questioners , Mr. Eisenhower was known to make his characteristic statement to the press that he was not going to talk about the matter any more .
cg24.53.0	ref	The portrait that had developed , fragmentarily but consistently , was the portrait of a man to whom serious thinking is alien enough that the making of a decision inhibits , when it does not forestall , any ability to review the decision in the light of new evidence .
cg24.53.1	post-adv	The portrait that had developed , fragmentarily but consistently , was the portrait of a man to whom serious thinking is alien enough that , when it does not forestall , the making of a decision inhibits any ability to review the decision in the light of new evidence .
cg24.55.0	ref	Instead it means that the thinking in which decision issues has the power to determine the morality of the decision , as in this instance the pressure for renewed practical or legislative attention to the constitutional problems the decision had uncovered might have done .
cg24.55.1	post-adv	As in this instance the pressure for renewed practical or legislative attention to the constitutional problems the decision had uncovered might have done , instead it means that the thinking in which decision issues has the power to determine the morality of the decision .
cg24.56.0	ref	Drifting through a third illness , apparently without any provision for the handling of a major national emergency other than a talk with the vice-president , Eisenhower revealed the singularly static quality of his thinking .
cg24.56.1	post-adj2	Drifting apparently without any provision for the handling of a major national emergency other than a talk with the vice-president , through a third illness , Eisenhower revealed the singularly static quality of his thinking .
cg24.58.0	ref	By contrast , the energetic reaction of the leader to the full demands his decision imposes upon him strengthens the moral intuition and gives us the measure of the man .
cg24.58.1	dat-np-np	By contrast , the energetic reaction of the leader to the full demands his decision imposes upon him strengthens the moral intuition and gives the measure of the man to us .
cg24.59.0	ref	Only by means of an intensive preoccupation with the detailed considerations following from any decision can he ensure attention to the practical details to be dealt with if the implications of immorality in the major decision are effectively to be checked .
cg24.59.1	post-adv	If the implications of immorality in the major decision are effectively to be checked only by means of an intensive preoccupation with the detailed considerations following from any decision can he ensure attention to the practical details to be dealt with .
cg24.65.0	ref	The capacity for making the distinctions of which diplomacy is compact , and the facility with language which can render them into validity in the eyes of other men are the leader 's means for transforming the moral intuition into moral leadership .
cg24.65.1	post-adj2	The capacity for making the distinctions of which diplomacy is compact , and the facility with language which can render them in the eyes of other men into validity are the leader 's means for transforming the moral intuition into moral leadership .
cg24.68.0	ref	But because it is the function of the mind to turn the one into the other by means of the capacities with which words endow it , we do not unwisely examine the type of distinction , in the sphere of politics , on which decisions hang .
cg24.68.1	pre-adv	But we do not unwisely examine the type of distinction , in the sphere of politics , on which decisions hang , because it is the function of the mind to turn the one into the other by means of the capacities with which words endow it .
cg24.68.2	post-adj2	But because it is the function of the mind to turn the one by means of the capacities with which words endow it into the other , we do not unwisely examine the type of distinction , in the sphere of politics , on which decisions hang .
cg25.6.0	ref	These ways are absolutely irreconcilable because they offer two different recipes for man 's redemption from chaos .
cg25.6.1	post-adv	Because they offer two different recipes for man 's redemption from chaos these ways are absolutely irreconcilable .
cg25.13.0	ref	If we examine the three types of change from the point of view of their internal structure we find an additional profound difference between the third and the first two , one that accounts for the notable difference between the responses they evoke .
cg25.13.1	pre-adv	We find an additional profound difference between the third and the first two , one that accounts for the notable difference between the responses they evoke , if we examine the three types of change from the point of view of their internal structure .
cg25.17.0	ref	Thus in both types attention is focused on the community itself , and its phenomenological life .
cg25.17.1	pre-adj2	In both types thus attention is focused on the community itself , and its phenomenological life .
cg25.20.0	ref	There the community , faced with the need to formulate policy on the level of absolute justice , can find the answer to its problem in the absolute truth which it holds as partially experienced .
cg25.20.1	post-adv	There the community , faced with the need to formulate policy on the level of absolute justice , can find the answer to its problem in the absolute truth which as partially experienced it holds .
cg25.24.0	ref	Precisely at the moment when it has lost its vision the mind of the community turns out from itself in a search for the ontological standard whereby it can measure itself .
cg25.24.1	post-adj2	Precisely at the moment when it has lost its vision the mind of the community turns out in a search for the ontological standard whereby it can measure itself from itself .
cg25.25.0	ref	For paradigmatic history `` breaks '' rather than unfolds precisely when the movement is from order to disorder , and not from one order to a new order .
cg25.25.1	post-adv	Precisely when the movement is from order to disorder , and not from one order to a new order for paradigmatic history `` breaks '' rather than unfolds .
cg25.27.0	ref	When disruptive change has penetrated to the third level of social order , the process of disruption rapidly reaches a point of no return .
cg25.27.1	pre-adv	The process of disruption rapidly reaches a point of no return , when disruptive change has penetrated to the third level of social order .
cg25.30.0	ref	At that point men become aware of the mystery of history called variously `` fate '' , or `` destiny '' , or `` providence '' , and feel themselves caught helplessly in the writhing of a disrupted society .
cg25.30.1	post-adj2	At that point men become aware of the mystery of history called variously `` fate '' , or `` destiny '' , or `` providence '' , and feel themselves caught in the writhing of a disrupted society helplessly .
cg25.33.0	ref	Its ontological status is itself most tenuous because apart from individual men , who are its `` matter '' , tradition , the `` form '' of society exists only as a shared perception of truth .
cg25.33.1	post-adv	Because apart from individual men , who are its `` matter '' , tradition , the `` form '' of society exists only as a shared perception of truth its ontological status is itself most tenuous .
cg25.33.2	post-adj2	Its ontological status is itself most tenuous because apart from individual men , who are its `` matter '' , tradition , the `` form '' of society exists as a shared perception of truth only .
cg25.37.0	ref	Civilization itself -- tradition -- falls out of existence when the human spirit itself becomes confused .
cg25.37.1	post-adv	When the human spirit itself becomes confused civilization itself -- tradition -- falls out of existence .
cg25.39.0	ref	Its massive contours are rooted in the simple need of man , since he is always incomplete , to complete himself .
cg25.39.1	post-adv	Its massive contours , since he is always incomplete , are rooted in the simple need of man to complete himself .
cg25.49.0	ref	Further , change is a form of motion , it occurs as the act of a being in potency insofar as it is in potency and has not yet reached the terminus of the change .
cg25.49.1	post-adv	Further , change is a form of motion , insofar as it is in potency and has not yet reached the terminus of the change it occurs as the act of a being in potency .
cg25.53.0	ref	This means that the inception of change itself can begin only when the factors conducive to change have already become more powerful than those anchoring the existent form in being .
cg25.53.1	post-adv	This means that the inception of change itself only when the factors conducive to change have already become more powerful than those anchoring the existent form in being can begin .
cg25.54.0	ref	If the existent form is to be retained new factors that reinforce it must be introduced into the situation .
cg25.54.1	pre-adv	New factors that reinforce it must be introduced into the situation if the existent form is to be retained .
cg25.55.0	ref	In the case of social decay , form is displaced simply by the process of dissolution with no form at the terminus of the process .
cg25.55.1	post-adj2	In the case of social decay , form is displaced with no form at the terminus of the process simply by the process of dissolution .
cg25.56.0	ref	Now in the mere fact of the beginning of such displacement we have prima-facie evidence of the ontological weakness of the fading form .
cg25.56.1	pre-adj2	In the mere fact of the beginning of such displacement now we have prima-facie evidence of the ontological weakness of the fading form .
cg25.57.0	ref	And when we consider the tenuous hold tradition has on existence , any weakening of that hold constitutes a crisis of existence .
cg25.57.1	pre-adv	And any weakening of that hold constitutes a crisis of existence , when we consider the tenuous hold tradition has on existence .
cg25.59.0	ref	However , the crisis occurs precisely as a weakening of spiritual forces .
cg25.59.1	post-adj2	However , the crisis occurs as a weakening of spiritual forces precisely .
cg25.67.0	ref	The process of erosion need only undermine the tradition and a series of consequences begin unfolding within the individual , while in institutions a quiet but deep transformation of processes occurs .
cg25.67.1	post-adv	The process of erosion need only undermine the tradition and , while in institutions a quiet but deep transformation of processes occurs , a series of consequences begin unfolding within the individual .
cg25.81.0	ref	The problem is to remove the accretions and thereby uncover the order that was always there .
cg25.81.1	post-adj2	The problem is to remove the accretions and thereby uncover the order that was there always .
cg25.83.0	ref	Moreover its posture of stubborn but simple resistance is doomed to failure because of the metaphysical weakness of the existent form of order , once the activation of change has reached visible proportions .
cg25.83.1	post-adv	Moreover its posture of stubborn but simple resistance , once the activation of change has reached visible proportions , is doomed to failure because of the metaphysical weakness of the existent form of order .
cg25.83.2	post-adj2	Moreover its posture of stubborn but simple resistance is doomed because of the metaphysical weakness of the existent form of order to failure , once the activation of change has reached visible proportions .
cg25.86.0	ref	Since a civilizational crisis involves also a crisis in private interests and in the ruling class , reaction is normally found among those who feel themselves to be among the ruling class .
cg25.86.1	pre-adv	Reaction is normally found among those who feel themselves to be among the ruling class , since a civilizational crisis involves also a crisis in private interests and in the ruling class .
cg25.88.0	ref	Since civilizational change is the most difficult to perceive and analyze , it seldom is given adequate attention .
cg25.88.1	pre-adv	It seldom is given adequate attention , since civilizational change is the most difficult to perceive and analyze .
cg25.92.0	ref	The reactionary misses the point that tradition exists ontologically only in the form of psychological-intellectual relations .
cg25.92.1	post-adj2	The reactionary misses the point that tradition exists only in the form of psychological-intellectual relations ontologically .
cg25.97.0	ref	When the reactionary response is thus bolstered by an intellectual defense , the characteristics of that defense are explicable only in terms of the basic attitudes of unanalyzed reaction .
cg25.97.1	pre-adv	The characteristics of that defense are explicable only in terms of the basic attitudes of unanalyzed reaction , when the reactionary response is thus bolstered by an intellectual defense .
cg25.102.0	ref	The reactionary is confused about the existential status of a decaying tradition , but he does perceive the unity tradition had when it was healthy .
cg25.102.1	post-adv	The reactionary is confused about the existential status of a decaying tradition , but he does perceive the unity when it was healthy tradition had .
cg26.3.0	ref	If we remove ourselves for a moment from our time and our infatuation with mental disease , is n't there something absurd about a hero in a novel who is defeated by his infantile neurosis ?
cg26.3.1	post-adj2	If we remove ourselves from our time and our infatuation with mental disease for a moment , is n't there something absurd about a hero in a novel who is defeated by his infantile neurosis ?
cg26.9.0	ref	It is a mistake to look upon the Oedipus of Oedipus Complex as a literary descendant of Oedipus Rex .
cg26.9.1	post-adj2	It is a mistake to look as a literary descendant of Oedipus Rex upon the Oedipus of Oedipus Complex .
cg26.10.0	ref	Whatever the psychological truth in the Oedipus myth , an Oedipus who is drawn to his fate by irresistible external forces can carry the symbol of humanity and its archaic crime , and the incest that is unknowing renews the mystery of the eternal dream of childhood and absorbs us in the secret .
cg26.10.1	pre-adv	An Oedipus who is drawn to his fate by irresistible external forces , whatever the psychological truth in the Oedipus myth , can carry the symbol of humanity and its archaic crime , and the incest that is unknowing renews the mystery of the eternal dream of childhood and absorbs us in the secret .
cg26.10.2	post-adj2	Whatever the psychological truth in the Oedipus myth , an Oedipus who is drawn by irresistible external forces to his fate can carry the symbol of humanity and its archaic crime , and the incest that is unknowing renews the mystery of the eternal dream of childhood and absorbs us in the secret .
cg26.11.0	ref	But a modern Oedipus who is doomed because he can not oppose his own childhood is only pathetic , and for renouncing the mystery in favor of psychological truth he gives up the claim on our sympathies .
cg26.11.1	post-adv	But a modern Oedipus who because he can not oppose his own childhood is doomed is only pathetic , and for renouncing the mystery in favor of psychological truth he gives up the claim on our sympathies .
cg26.14.0	ref	Incest is still a durable theme , but if it wants to get written about it will have to find ways to surprise the emotions , and there is no better way to do this than that of concealment and symbolic representation .
cg26.14.1	pre-adv	Incest is still a durable theme , but it will have to find ways to surprise the emotions if it wants to get written about , and there is no better way to do this than that of concealment and symbolic representation .
cg26.18.0	ref	If I now risk some comparisons with Sons And Lovers let it be clear that I am not comparing the two works or judging their merits ; I am only singling out differences in treatment of a theme and the resultant effects .
cg26.18.1	pre-adv	Let it be clear that I am not comparing the two works or judging their merits if I now risk some comparisons with Sons And Lovers ; I am only singling out differences in treatment of a theme and the resultant effects .
cg26.21.0	ref	There are ghostly scenes in which the little boy on his rocking horse rocks madly toward the climax that will magically give him the name of the winning horse .
cg26.21.1	dat-np-np	There are ghostly scenes in which the little boy on his rocking horse rocks madly toward the climax that will magically give the name of the winning horse to him .
cg26.21.2	post-adj2	There are ghostly scenes in which the little boy on his rocking horse rocks toward the climax that will magically give him the name of the winning horse madly .
cg26.22.0	ref	The child grows rich on his winnings and conspires with his uncle to make secret gifts of his money to his mother .
cg26.22.1	dat-np-pp	The child grows rich on his winnings and conspires with his uncle to make his mother secret gifts of his money .
cg26.25.0	ref	I had read the story many times without asking myself why it affected me or caring why it did .
cg26.25.1	dat-np-np	I had read many times to the story without asking myself why it affected me or caring why it did .
cg26.27.0	ref	It was , of course , a little boy 's fantasy of winning his mother to himself , and replacing the father who could not give her the things she wanted -- a classical oedipal fantasy if you like -- but if it were only this the story would be banal .
cg26.27.1	dat-np-np	It was , of course , a little boy 's fantasy of winning his mother to himself , and replacing the father who could not give the things she wanted to her -- a classical oedipal fantasy if you like -- but if it were only this the story would be banal .
cg26.27.2	pre-adv	It was , of course , a little boy 's fantasy of winning his mother to himself , and replacing the father who could not give her the things she wanted -- a classical oedipal fantasy if you like -- but the story would be banal if it were only this .
cg26.31.0	ref	The rocking , I realized , is the single element in the story that carries the erotic message , the unspoken and unconscious undercurrent that would mar the innocence of a child 's fantasy and disturb the effects of the work if it were made explicit .
cg26.31.1	post-adv	The rocking , I realized , is the single element in the story that carries the erotic message , the unspoken and unconscious undercurrent that if it were made explicit would mar the innocence of a child 's fantasy and disturb the effects of the work .
cg26.33.0	ref	And if we understand the rocking as an erotic symbol we can also see how well it serves as the symbol of impending tragedy .
cg26.33.1	pre-adv	And we can also see how well it serves as the symbol of impending tragedy if we understand the rocking as an erotic symbol .
cg26.35.0	ref	We are also struck by the fact that this story of a boy 's love for his mother does not offend , while the incestuous love of the man , Paul Morel , sometimes repels .
cg26.35.1	post-adv	We are also struck by the fact that this story of a boy 's love for his mother , while the incestuous love of the man , Paul Morel , sometimes repels , does not offend .
cg26.37.0	ref	This love belongs to childhood ; we accord it its place there , and in Lawrence 's treatment we are given the innocent fantasy of a child , in fact , the form in which oedipal love is expressed in childhood .
cg26.37.1	dat-np-np	This love belongs to childhood ; we accord its place to it there , and in Lawrence 's treatment we are given the innocent fantasy of a child , in fact , the form in which oedipal love is expressed in childhood .
cg26.38.0	ref	And when the child dies in Lawrence 's story in a delirium that is somehow brought on by his mania to win and to make his mother rich , the manifest absurdity of such a disease and such a death does not enter into our thoughts at all .
cg26.38.1	pre-adv	And the manifest absurdity of such a disease and such a death does not enter into our thoughts at all , when the child dies in Lawrence 's story in a delirium that is somehow brought on by his mania to win and to make his mother rich .
cg26.38.2	post-adj2	And when the child dies in a delirium that is somehow brought on by his mania to win and to make his mother rich in Lawrence 's story , the manifest absurdity of such a disease and such a death does not enter into our thoughts at all .
cg26.43.0	ref	He would not have cared why it emerged , he only wanted to capture a memory to play with it again in his imagination and somehow to fix and hold in the story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy .
cg26.43.1	post-adj3	He would not have cared why it emerged , he only wanted to capture a memory to play again with it in his imagination and somehow to fix and hold in the story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy .
cg26.43.2	post-adj3	He would not have cared why it emerged , he only wanted to capture a memory to play in his imagination again with it and somehow to fix and hold in the story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy .
cg26.43.3	post-adj3	He would not have cared why it emerged , he only wanted to capture a memory to play with it in his imagination again and somehow to fix and hold in the story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy .
cg26.43.4	post-adj3	He would not have cared why it emerged , he only wanted to capture a memory to play in his imagination with it again and somehow to fix and hold in the story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy .
cg26.43.5	post-adj3	He would not have cared why it emerged , he only wanted to capture a memory to play again in his imagination with it and somehow to fix and hold in the story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy .
cg26.44.0	ref	In our own time we have seen that the novelist 's debt to psychoanalysis has increased but that the novel itself has not profited much from this marriage .
cg26.44.1	post-adj2	In our own time we have seen that the novelist 's debt to psychoanalysis has increased but that the novel itself has not profited from this marriage much .
cg26.49.0	ref	If many of the characters in contemporary novels appear to be the bloodless relations of characters in a case history it is because the novelist is often forgetful today that those things that we call character manifest themselves in surface behavior , that the ego is still the executive agency of personality , and that all we know of personality must be discerned through the ego .
cg26.49.1	pre-adv	It is because the novelist is often forgetful today that those things that we call character manifest themselves in surface behavior , that the ego is still the executive agency of personality , and that all we know of personality must be discerned through the ego if many of the characters in contemporary novels appear to be the bloodless relations of characters in a case history .
cg26.49.2	post-adj2	If many of the characters in contemporary novels appear to be the bloodless relations of characters in a case history it is because the novelist is today forgetful often that those things that we call character manifest themselves in surface behavior , that the ego is still the executive agency of personality , and that all we know of personality must be discerned through the ego .
cg26.50.0	ref	The novelist who has been badly baptized in psychoanalysis often gives us the impression that since all men must have an Oedipus complex all men must have the same faces .
cg26.50.1	dat-np-np	The novelist who has been badly baptized in psychoanalysis often gives the impression that since all men must have an Oedipus complex all men must have the same faces to us .
cg26.50.2	pre-adv	The novelist who has been badly baptized in psychoanalysis often gives us the impression that all men must have the same faces since all men must have an Oedipus complex .
cg26.57.0	ref	In both the farmer 's tale in Ralph Ellison 's Invisible Man and in Thomas Mann 's The Holy Sinner , the incest hero rises above the myth by accepting the wish as motive ; the heroic act is the casting off of pretense .
cg26.57.1	post-adj2	In both the farmer 's tale in Ralph Ellison 's Invisible Man and in Thomas Mann 's The Holy Sinner , the incest hero rises by accepting the wish as motive above the myth ; the heroic act is the casting off of pretense .
cg26.61.0	ref	But The Holy Sinner is not simply a retelling of old stories for an old man 's entertainment .
cg26.61.1	post-adj2	But The Holy Sinner is not for an old man 's entertainment a retelling of old stories simply .
cg26.62.0	ref	Mann understood better than most men the incest comedy at the center of the myth and the psychological truth in which dread is shown as the other face as longing was for him just the kind of deep and complicated joke he liked to tell .
cg26.62.1	post-adv	As longing was for him just the kind of deep and complicated joke he liked to tell Mann understood better than most men the incest comedy at the center of the myth and the psychological truth in which dread is shown as the other face .
cg26.63.0	ref	And when he retold the legend of Gregorius he interpolated a modern version in which the medieval players speak contemporary thoughts in archaic language ; while they move through the pageantry of the ancient incest myth and cover themselves through not-knowing , they reveal the unconscious motive in seeking each other and in the last scene make an extraordinary confession of guilt in the twentieth-century manner .
cg26.63.1	pre-adv	And he interpolated a modern version in which the medieval players speak contemporary thoughts in archaic language , when he retold the legend of Gregorius ; while they move through the pageantry of the ancient incest myth and cover themselves through not-knowing , they reveal the unconscious motive in seeking each other and in the last scene make an extraordinary confession of guilt in the twentieth-century manner .
cg26.63.2	pre-adv	And when he retold the legend of Gregorius he interpolated a modern version in which the medieval players speak contemporary thoughts in archaic language ; they reveal the unconscious motive in seeking each other and in the last scene make an extraordinary confession of guilt in the twentieth-century manner , while they move through the pageantry of the ancient incest myth and cover themselves through not-knowing .
cg26.65.0	ref	He is born in secrecy after the death of his father and cast adrift soon after birth .
cg26.65.1	post-adj2	He is born after the death of his father in secrecy and cast adrift soon after birth .
cg26.67.0	ref	An ivory tablet in the infant 's cask recounts the story of his sinful origins and is preserved for the child by the monks of a monastery in the fishing village .
cg26.67.1	post-adj2	An ivory tablet in the infant 's cask recounts the story of his sinful origins and is preserved by the monks of a monastery in the fishing village for the child .
cg26.68.0	ref	Grigorss , at seventeen , learns his story and goes forth as a knight to uncover his origins .
cg26.68.1	post-adj2	Grigorss , at seventeen , learns his story and goes as a knight forth to uncover his origins .
cg26.69.0	ref	His sailing vessel is guided by fate to the shores of his own country at a time when Sibylla 's domain is overrun by the armies of one of her rejected suitors .
cg26.69.1	post-adj3	His sailing vessel is guided to the shores of his own country by fate at a time when Sibylla 's domain is overrun by the armies of one of her rejected suitors .
cg26.69.2	post-adj3	His sailing vessel is guided at a time when Sibylla 's domain is overrun by the armies of one of her rejected suitors to the shores of his own country by fate .
cg26.69.3	post-adj3	His sailing vessel is guided by fate at a time when Sibylla 's domain is overrun by the armies of one of her rejected suitors to the shores of his own country .
cg26.69.4	post-adj3	His sailing vessel is guided at a time when Sibylla 's domain is overrun by the armies of one of her rejected suitors by fate to the shores of his own country .
cg26.69.5	post-adj3	His sailing vessel is guided to the shores of his own country at a time when Sibylla 's domain is overrun by the armies of one of her rejected suitors by fate .
cg26.71.0	ref	Sibylla is pregnant with their second child when she finds the ivory tablet concealed by her husband , and the identities of mother and son are revealed .
cg26.71.1	post-adv	When she finds the ivory tablet concealed by her husband , and the identities of mother and son are revealed Sibylla is pregnant with their second child .
cg26.72.0	ref	Grigorss goes off to do penance on a rock for seventeen years .
cg26.72.1	post-adj2	Grigorss goes off to do penance for seventeen years on a rock .
cg26.76.0	ref	Mother and son recognize each other and , in Mann 's version of this legend , make a remarkable confession of guilt to each other , the confession of unconscious motive and unconscious knowledge of their true identities from the time they had first set eyes on each other .
cg26.76.1	dat-np-np	Mother and son recognize each other and , in Mann 's version of this legend , make the confession of unconscious motive and unconscious knowledge of their true identities from the time they had first set eyes on each other to each other , to a remarkable confession of guilt .
cg27.2.0	ref	Moreover , he organized the movement of his forms , within his rigorously shaped space , into highly complex equilibriums ; and used gradations of color value as well as sharply contrasting elementary colors .
cg27.2.1	post-adj2	Moreover , he organized the movement of his forms , into highly complex equilibriums , within his rigorously shaped space ; and used gradations of color value as well as sharply contrasting elementary colors .
cg27.7.0	ref	As Helion 's work showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature , the pure abstractionists expressed some disapproval ; but Leger , Arp , Lipchitz and Alexander Calder , at the time , gave him their blessing .
cg27.7.1	dat-np-np	As Helion 's work showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature , the pure abstractionists expressed some disapproval ; but Leger , Arp , Lipchitz and Alexander Calder , at the time , gave their blessing to him .
cg27.7.2	pre-adv	The pure abstractionists expressed some disapproval , as Helion 's work showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature ; but Leger , Arp , Lipchitz and Alexander Calder , at the time , gave him their blessing .
cg27.9.0	ref	Exhibited in shows in London in 1935 , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
cg27.9.1	post-adj3	Exhibited in London in shows in 1935 , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
cg27.9.2	post-adj3	Exhibited in 1935 in London in shows , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
cg27.9.3	post-adj3	Exhibited in shows in 1935 in London , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
cg27.9.4	post-adj3	Exhibited in 1935 in shows in London , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
cg27.9.5	post-adj3	Exhibited in London in 1935 in shows , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence .
cg27.10.0	ref	At this period the thirty-year old Helion was ranked `` as one of the mature leaders of the modern movement '' , according to Herbert Read , `` and in the direct line of descent from Cezanne , Seurat , Gris and Leger '' .
cg27.10.1	post-adj2	At this period the thirty-year old Helion was ranked `` according to Herbert Read '' , as one of the mature leaders of the modern movement , `` and in the direct line of descent from Cezanne , Seurat , Gris and Leger '' .
cg27.20.0	ref	He himself did not know , as he said in 1935 .
cg27.20.1	post-adv	He himself , as he said in 1935 , did not know .
cg27.23.0	ref	But whereas the postwar American abstractionists seem to Helion to be determined to `` escape '' from the real world , or simply to rebel against it , the ordered abstractions which he and his associates of the 1930 's were painting embodied the hope of `` improving '' things .
cg27.23.1	pre-adv	But the ordered abstractions which he and his associates of the 1930 's were painting embodied the hope of `` improving '' things , whereas the postwar American abstractionists seem to Helion to be determined to `` escape '' from the real world , or simply to rebel against it .
cg27.30.0	ref	`` I arrived in the United States with the idea of establishing myself there more or less permanently and finding inspiration for new compositions '' .
cg27.30.1	post-adj2	`` I arrived with the idea of establishing myself there more or less permanently and finding inspiration for new compositions in the United States '' .
cg27.34.0	ref	`` Fear possessed me , and the certainty of war '' , he has related .
cg27.34.1	quote	`` Fear possessed me , and the certainty of war '' , has related he .
cg27.37.0	ref	`` I knew I was carrying on with abstraction to its very end -- for me '' , he said of the two years ' output in Virginia .
cg27.37.1	post-adj3	`` I knew I was carrying on to its very end with abstraction -- for me '' , he said of the two years ' output in Virginia .
cg27.37.2	post-adj3	`` I knew I was carrying on for me to its very end -- with abstraction '' , he said of the two years ' output in Virginia .
cg27.37.3	post-adj3	`` I knew I was carrying on with abstraction for me -- to its very end '' , he said of the two years ' output in Virginia .
cg27.37.4	post-adj3	`` I knew I was carrying on -- for me -- with abstraction to its very end '' , he said of the two years ' output in Virginia .
cg27.37.5	post-adj3	`` I knew I was carrying on to its very end -- for me with abstraction '' , he said of the two years ' output in Virginia .
cg27.40.0	ref	He had taken out first papers for American citizenship ; but after war came to Europe , he decided to return to France , arriving there in January , 1940 .
cg27.40.1	pre-adv	He had taken out first papers for American citizenship ; but he decided to return to France , arriving there in January , 1940 , after war came to Europe .
cg27.41.0	ref	`` I hated the war '' , he said , `` but thought I ought to go because I was , perhaps , one of those who had n't done enough to prevent it '' .
cg27.41.1	post-adv	`` I hated the war '' , he said , `` but thought because I was , perhaps , one of those who had n't done enough to prevent it I ought to go '' .
cg27.42.0	ref	In June , 1940 , Sergeant Helion , with a company of reserve troops waiting to go into battle , was sketching the hills south of the Loire River , when the war suddenly rolled in upon him .
cg27.42.1	post-adv	In June , 1940 , Sergeant Helion , with a company of reserve troops waiting to go into battle , when the war suddenly rolled in upon him , was sketching the hills south of the Loire River .
cg27.44.0	ref	His company then carried out a confused retreating movement until it was surrounded by the Germans , a few days before France capitulated .
cg27.44.1	post-adv	Until it was surrounded by the Germans , a few days before France capitulated his company then carried out a confused retreating movement .
cg27.44.2	post-adj2	His company then carried out a confused retreating movement until it was surrounded a few days before France capitulated , by the Germans .
cg27.45.0	ref	After a sort of death march during four days without food , Helion and his comrades were shipped by cattle-car to a labor camp at an estate farm in East Germany .
cg27.45.1	post-adj2	After a sort of death march during four days without food , Helion and his comrades were shipped to a labor camp at an estate farm in East Germany by cattle-car .
cg27.48.0	ref	When he was stripped , deloused and numbered by his guards , his much-thumbed sketchbook was seized and thrown on a pile of prisoners ' goods to be confiscated .
cg27.48.1	pre-adv	His much-thumbed sketchbook was seized and thrown on a pile of prisoners ' goods to be confiscated , when he was stripped , deloused and numbered by his guards .
cg27.49.0	ref	`` It was then I knew that they were making war against Man , the individual within ! who questioned things when given orders '' .
cg27.49.1	post-adv	`` It was then I knew that they were making war against Man , the individual within ! who when given orders questioned things '' .
cg27.50.0	ref	At Stettin the university-educated artist , who had studied German , was chosen to serve as interpreter and clerk in the office of the Stalag commander .
cg27.50.1	post-adj2	At Stettin the university-educated artist , who had studied German , was chosen to serve in the office of the Stalag commander as interpreter and clerk .
cg27.56.0	ref	One evening , while a volley-ball game was being played in the yard among the prisoners remaining there , a simulated melee was staged -- just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from work .
cg27.56.1	post-adv	One evening , while a volley-ball game was being played in the yard among the prisoners remaining there , a simulated melee -- just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from work -- was staged .
cg27.56.2	pre-adv	One evening a simulated melee was staged -- just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from work , while a volley-ball game was being played in the yard among the prisoners remaining there .
cg27.56.3	post-adj2	One evening , while a volley-ball game was being played among the prisoners remaining there in the yard , a simulated melee was staged -- just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from work .
cg27.57.0	ref	As Helion wrote afterward : `` Their sentry followed .
cg27.57.1	pre-adv	`` Their sentry followed as Helion wrote afterward .
cg27.58.0	ref	Four hands were stretched toward me by my comrades behind me .
cg27.58.1	post-adj2	Four hands were stretched by my comrades behind me toward me .
cg27.62.0	ref	Duclos ran toward Desprez with fists raised .
cg27.62.1	post-adj2	Duclos ran with fists raised toward Desprez .
cg27.65.0	ref	Riding trains , hitching hikes on trucks across Germany , slipping through guarded frontiers with the help of secret guides , he eventually reached Vichy France , and , by the winter of 1943 , was back in Virginia .
cg27.65.1	post-adj2	Riding trains , hitching hikes across Germany on trucks , slipping through guarded frontiers with the help of secret guides , he eventually reached Vichy France , and , by the winter of 1943 , was back in Virginia .
cg27.71.0	ref	Helion knew that he owed his freedom as much to the self-sacrifice of his fellow-men in Arbeitskommando 13 , Stettin , as to his own fierce will and love of life .
cg27.71.1	post-adj2	Helion knew that he owed his freedom to the self-sacrifice of his fellow-men in Arbeitskommando 13 , Stettin , as to his own fierce will and love of life as much .
cg27.80.0	ref	While convalescing in his Virginia home he wrote a book recording his prison experiences and escape , entitled : They Shall Not Have Me
cg27.80.1	pre-adv	He wrote a book recording his prison experiences and escape , entitled : They Shall Not Have Me , while convalescing in his Virginia home
cg27.83.0	ref	But when he showed his new figurative pictures to his artist friends of the abstract camp , they paid him no compliments and drew long faces .
cg27.83.1	dat-np-np	But when he showed his new figurative pictures to his artist friends of the abstract camp , they paid no compliments to him and drew long faces .
cg27.83.2	pre-adv	But they paid him no compliments and drew long faces , when he showed his new figurative pictures to his artist friends of the abstract camp .
cg27.84.0	ref	Between 1944 and 1947 Helion had a series of one-man shows -- at the Paul Rosenberg Gallery in New York and in Paris -- of his new realistic pictures .
cg27.84.1	post-adj2	Between 1944 and 1947 Helion had a series of one-man shows -- of his new realistic pictures -- at the Paul Rosenberg Gallery in New York and in Paris .
cg27.85.0	ref	They reincarnated the figures of human beings banished from his canvases since the 1920 's .
cg27.85.1	post-adj2	They reincarnated the figures of human beings banished since the 1920 's from his canvases .
cg28.1.0	ref	Important as was Mr. O'Donnell's essay , his thesis is so restricting as to deny Faulkner the stature which he obviously has .
cg28.1.1	dat-np-np	Important as was Mr. O'Donnell's essay , his thesis is so restricting as to deny the stature which he obviously has to Faulkner .
cg28.4.0	ref	If he is a traditionalist , he is an eclectic traditionalist .
cg28.4.1	pre-adv	He is an eclectic traditionalist , if he is a traditionalist .
cg28.5.0	ref	If he condemns the recent or the present , he condemns the past with no less force .
cg28.5.1	pre-adv	He condemns the past with no less force , if he condemns the recent or the present .
cg28.6.0	ref	If he sees the heroic in a Sartoris or a Sutpen , he sees also -- and he shows -- the blind and the mean , and he sees the Compson family disintegrating from within .
cg28.6.1	pre-adv	He sees also , if he sees the heroic in a Sartoris or a Sutpen -- and he shows -- the blind and the mean , and he sees the Compson family disintegrating from within .
cg28.7.0	ref	If the barn-burner 's family produces a Flem Snopes , who personifies commercialism and materialism in hyperbolic crassness , the Compson family produces a Jason Compson 4 .
cg28.7.1	pre-adv	The Compson family produces a Jason Compson 4 , if the barn-burner 's family produces a Flem Snopes , who personifies commercialism and materialism in hyperbolic crassness .
cg28.13.0	ref	He is not one to remain more comfortably and unquestioningly within a body of social , cultural , or literary traditions than he was within the traditions -- or possibly the regulations -- governing his tenure in the post office at Oxford , Mississippi , thirty-five years ago .
cg28.13.1	post-adj3	He is not one to remain within a body of social , cultural , or literary traditions more comfortably and unquestioningly than he was within the traditions -- or possibly the regulations -- governing his tenure in the post office at Oxford , Mississippi , thirty-five years ago .
cg28.13.2	post-adj3	He is not one to remain than he was within the traditions -- or possibly the regulations -- governing his tenure in the post office at Oxford , Mississippi , thirty-five years ago within a body of social , cultural , or literary traditions more comfortably and unquestioningly .
cg28.13.3	post-adj3	He is not one to remain more comfortably and unquestioningly than he was within the traditions -- or possibly the regulations -- governing his tenure in the post office at Oxford , Mississippi , thirty-five years ago within a body of social , cultural , or literary traditions .
cg28.13.4	post-adj3	He is not one to remain than he was within the traditions -- or possibly the regulations -- governing his tenure in the post office at Oxford , Mississippi , thirty-five years ago more comfortably and unquestioningly within a body of social , cultural , or literary traditions .
cg28.13.5	post-adj3	He is not one to remain within a body of social , cultural , or literary traditions than he was within the traditions -- or possibly the regulations -- governing his tenure in the post office at Oxford , Mississippi , thirty-five years ago more comfortably and unquestioningly .
cg28.17.0	ref	The fact that he has cast over those materials the light of a skeptical mind does not make him any the less Southern , I rather think , for the South has been no more solid than other regions except in the political and related areas where patronage and force and intimidation and fear may produce a surface uniformity .
cg28.17.1	quote	The fact that he has cast over those materials the light of a skeptical mind does not make him any the less Southern , rather think I , for the South has been no more solid than other regions except in the political and related areas where patronage and force and intimidation and fear may produce a surface uniformity .
cg28.21.0	ref	And , after all , he has lived comfortably at both Oxford , Mississippi , and Charlottesville , Virginia .
cg28.21.1	post-adj2	And , after all , he has lived at both Oxford , Mississippi , and Charlottesville , Virginia comfortably .
cg28.28.0	ref	But in looking at Faulkner against his background in Mississippi and the South , it is important not to lose the broader perspective .
cg28.28.1	post-adj2	But in looking against his background in Mississippi and the South at Faulkner , it is important not to lose the broader perspective .
cg28.33.0	ref	The ingredients of Faulkner 's novels and stories are by no means new with him , and most of the problems he takes up have had the attention of authors before him .
cg28.33.1	post-adj2	The ingredients of Faulkner 's novels and stories are with him new by no means , and most of the problems he takes up have had the attention of authors before him .
cg28.34.0	ref	A useful comment on his relation to his region may be made , I think , by noting briefly how in handling Southern materials and Southern problems he has deviated from the pattern set by other Southern authors while remaining faithful to the essential character of the region .
cg28.34.1	post-adv	A useful comment on his relation to his region may be made , I think , by noting briefly how in handling Southern materials and Southern problems he while remaining faithful to the essential character of the region has deviated from the pattern set by other Southern authors .
cg28.35.0	ref	The planter aristocracy has appeared in literature at least since John Pendleton Kennedy published Swallow-Barn in 1832 and in his genial portrait of Frank Meriwether presiding over his plantation dominion initiated the most persistent tradition of Southern literature .
cg28.35.1	post-adv	The planter aristocracy at least since John Pendleton Kennedy published Swallow-Barn in 1832 and in his genial portrait of Frank Meriwether presiding over his plantation dominion initiated the most persistent tradition of Southern literature has appeared in literature .
cg28.36.0	ref	The thoroughgoing idealization of the planter society did not come , however , until after the Civil War when Southern writers were eager to defend a way of life which had been destroyed .
cg28.36.1	post-adv	The thoroughgoing idealization of the planter society when Southern writers were eager to defend a way of life which had been destroyed did not come , however , until after the Civil War .
cg28.36.2	post-adj2	The thoroughgoing idealization of the planter society did not come , until after the Civil War , however when Southern writers were eager to defend a way of life which had been destroyed .
cg28.37.0	ref	As they looked with nostalgia to a society which had been swept away , they were probably no more than half-conscious that they painted in colors which had never existed .
cg28.37.1	pre-adv	They were probably no more than half-conscious that they painted in colors which had never existed , as they looked with nostalgia to a society which had been swept away .
cg28.37.2	post-adj2	As they looked to a society which had been swept away with nostalgia , they were probably no more than half-conscious that they painted in colors which had never existed .
cg28.38.0	ref	Their books found no less willing readers outside than inside the South , even while memories of the war were still sharp .
cg28.38.1	post-adv	Even while memories of the war were still sharp , their books found no less willing readers outside than inside the South .
cg28.38.2	post-adj2	Their books found no less willing readers than inside outside the South , even while memories of the war were still sharp .
cg28.39.0	ref	The tradition reached its apex , perhaps , in the works of Thomas Nelson Page toward the end of the century , and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 in the best-selling novel So Red The Rose , by Stark Young .
cg28.39.1	post-adj3	The tradition reached its apex , in the works of Thomas Nelson Page , perhaps toward the end of the century , and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 in the best-selling novel So Red The Rose , by Stark Young .
cg28.39.2	post-adj3	The tradition reached its apex , toward the end of the century , in the works of Thomas Nelson Page perhaps , and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 in the best-selling novel So Red The Rose , by Stark Young .
cg28.39.3	post-adj3	The tradition reached its apex , perhaps , toward the end of the century in the works of Thomas Nelson Page , and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 in the best-selling novel So Red The Rose , by Stark Young .
cg28.39.4	post-adj3	The tradition reached its apex , toward the end of the century perhaps , in the works of Thomas Nelson Page , and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 in the best-selling novel So Red The Rose , by Stark Young .
cg28.39.5	post-adj3	The tradition reached its apex in the works of Thomas Nelson Page toward the end of the century , perhaps , and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 in the best-selling novel So Red The Rose , by Stark Young .
cg28.40.0	ref	Although Faulkner was the heir in his own family to this tradition , he did not have Stark Young 's inclination to romanticize and sentimentalize the planter society .
cg28.40.1	pre-adv	He did not have Stark Young 's inclination to romanticize and sentimentalize the planter society , although Faulkner was the heir in his own family to this tradition .
cg28.41.0	ref	The myth of the Southern plantation has had only a tangential relation with actuality , as Francis Pendleton Gaines showed forty years ago , and I suspect it has had a far narrower acceptance as something real than has generally been supposed .
cg28.41.1	post-adv	The myth of the Southern plantation , as Francis Pendleton Gaines showed forty years ago , has had only a tangential relation with actuality , and I suspect it has had a far narrower acceptance as something real than has generally been supposed .
cg28.44.0	ref	It may be that in this comment he has broken from the conventional pattern more violently than in any other regard , for the treatment in his books is far removed from even the genial irony of Ellen Glasgow , who was the only important novelist before him to challenge the conventional picture of planter society .
cg28.44.1	post-adj2	It may be that in this comment he has broken more violently than in any other regard from the conventional pattern , for the treatment in his books is far removed from even the genial irony of Ellen Glasgow , who was the only important novelist before him to challenge the conventional picture of planter society .
cg28.46.0	ref	They have an ancestry extending back , however , at least to 1728 , when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina .
cg28.46.1	post-adj3	They have an ancestry extending however , back , at least to 1728 , when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina .
cg28.46.2	post-adj3	They have an ancestry extending at least to 1728 , when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina , however , back .
cg28.46.3	post-adj3	They have an ancestry extending back , at least to 1728 , when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina , however .
cg28.46.4	post-adj3	They have an ancestry extending , at least to 1728 , when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina , back , however .
cg28.46.5	post-adj3	They have an ancestry extending however , at least to 1728 , when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina , back .
cg28.48.0	ref	These narratives of coarse action and crude language appeared first in local newspapers , as a rule , and later found their way between book covers , though rarely into the planters ' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes of Horace , Mr. Addison , Mr. Pope , and Sir Walter Scott .
cg28.48.1	post-adj3	These narratives of coarse action and crude language appeared in local newspapers first , as a rule , and later found their way between book covers , though rarely into the planters ' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes of Horace , Mr. Addison , Mr. Pope , and Sir Walter Scott .
cg28.48.2	post-adj3	These narratives of coarse action and crude language appeared as a rule in local newspapers , first , and later found their way between book covers , though rarely into the planters ' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes of Horace , Mr. Addison , Mr. Pope , and Sir Walter Scott .
cg28.48.3	post-adj3	These narratives of coarse action and crude language appeared first as a rule , in local newspapers , and later found their way between book covers , though rarely into the planters ' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes of Horace , Mr. Addison , Mr. Pope , and Sir Walter Scott .
cg28.48.4	post-adj3	These narratives of coarse action and crude language appeared , as a rule , first in local newspapers and later found their way between book covers , though rarely into the planters ' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes of Horace , Mr. Addison , Mr. Pope , and Sir Walter Scott .
cg28.48.5	post-adj3	These narratives of coarse action and crude language appeared in local newspapers , as a rule first , and later found their way between book covers , though rarely into the planters ' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes of Horace , Mr. Addison , Mr. Pope , and Sir Walter Scott .
cg28.56.0	ref	Such characters , with their low existence and often low morality , produce humorous effects in his novels and tales , as they did in the writing of Longstreet and Hooper and Harris , but it need not be added that he gives them far subtler and more intricate functions than they had in the earlier writers ; nor is there need to add that among them are some of the most highly individualized and most successful of his characters .
cg28.56.1	dat-np-np	Such characters , with their low existence and often low morality , produce humorous effects in his novels and tales , as they did in the writing of Longstreet and Hooper and Harris , but it need not be added that he gives far subtler and more intricate functions than they had in the earlier writers to them ; nor is there need to add that among them are some of the most highly individualized and most successful of his characters .
cg28.56.2	post-adv	As they did in the writing of Longstreet and Hooper and Harris , such characters , with their low existence and often low morality , produce humorous effects in his novels and tales , but it need not be added that he gives them far subtler and more intricate functions than they had in the earlier writers ; nor is there need to add that among them are some of the most highly individualized and most successful of his characters .
cg28.58.0	ref	Thorpe came to Louisiana from the East as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting of romantic adventure and idealized beauty .
cg28.58.1	post-adj3	Thorpe came from the East to Louisiana as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting of romantic adventure and idealized beauty .
cg28.58.2	post-adj3	Thorpe came as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting of romantic adventure and idealized beauty from the East to Louisiana .
cg28.58.3	post-adj3	Thorpe came to Louisiana as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting of romantic adventure and idealized beauty from the East .
cg28.58.4	post-adj3	Thorpe came as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting of romantic adventure and idealized beauty to Louisiana from the East .
cg28.58.5	post-adj3	Thorpe came from the East as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting of romantic adventure and idealized beauty to Louisiana .
cg29.5.0	ref	Even if people do , in a not far distant future , begin to read one another 's minds , there will still be the question of whether what you find in another man 's mind is especially worth reading -- worth more , that is , than what you can read in good books .
cg29.5.1	pre-adv	There will still be the question of whether what you find in another man 's mind is especially worth reading -- worth more , that is , than what you can read in good books , even if people do , in a not far distant future , begin to read one another 's minds .
cg29.6.0	ref	Even if men eventually find themselves able to look through walls and around corners , one may question whether this will help them to live better lives .
cg29.6.1	pre-adv	One may question whether this will help them to live better lives , even if men eventually find themselves able to look through walls and around corners .
cg29.15.0	ref	He is a Craig 's wife who agonizes about tobacco ash on the living room rug and he is a forgetful genius who goes boating with the town baker when dignitaries from the local university have come to call .
cg29.15.1	post-adv	He is a Craig 's wife who agonizes about tobacco ash on the living room rug and he is a forgetful genius who when dignitaries from the local university have come to call goes boating with the town baker .
cg29.16.0	ref	He is the stern guardian of the status quo who has raised the utilitarian structures of the age , and he is the revolutionary poet with a gun in his hand who writes a tragic apologetic to posterity for the men he has killed .
cg29.16.1	post-adj2	He is the stern guardian of the status quo who has raised the utilitarian structures of the age , and he is the revolutionary poet with a gun in his hand who writes a tragic apologetic for the men he has killed to posterity .
cg29.20.0	ref	The pamphlets are about law , the corporation , forms of government , the idea of freedom , the defense of liberty , the various lethargies which overtake our major institutions , the gap between traditional social ideals and the working mechanisms that have been set in motion for their realization .
cg29.20.1	post-adj2	The pamphlets are about law , the corporation , forms of government , the idea of freedom , the defense of liberty , the various lethargies which overtake our major institutions , the gap between traditional social ideals and the working mechanisms that have been set for their realization in motion .
cg29.23.0	ref	Actually , you could wish for some passion , now and then , but when you look around the world and see the little volcanos of current history which partisan social passions have wrought , you are glad that in these pamphlets there is at least some civilized calm .
cg29.23.1	pre-adv	Actually , you could wish for some passion , now and then , but you are glad that in these pamphlets there is at least some civilized calm , when you look around the world and see the little volcanos of current history which partisan social passions have wrought .
cg29.23.2	post-adj2	Actually , you could wish now and then , for some passion , but when you look around the world and see the little volcanos of current history which partisan social passions have wrought , you are glad that in these pamphlets there is at least some civilized calm .
cg29.26.0	ref	This is the good kind of sophistication , and with all our problems and crises this kind of sophistication has flowered in the United States during recent years .
cg29.26.1	post-adj2	This is the good kind of sophistication , and with all our problems and crises this kind of sophistication has flowered during recent years in the United States .
cg29.29.0	ref	After casting about for a way of describing this spirit , we decided that it would be better to use Mr. Lyford 's introduction as an illustration .
cg29.29.1	post-adj2	After casting for a way of describing this spirit about , we decided that it would be better to use Mr. Lyford 's introduction as an illustration .
cg29.30.0	ref	He begins : `` At one time it seemed as if the Soviet Union had done us a favor by providing a striking example of how not to behave towards other peoples and other nations .
cg29.30.1	dat-np-np	He begins : `` At one time it seemed as if the Soviet Union had done a favor to us by providing a striking example of how not to behave towards other peoples and other nations .
cg29.34.0	ref	Since the slogans have little application to reality and are sanctimonious to boot , the applause is faint even in areas of the world where we should expect to find the greatest affection for free government .
cg29.34.1	pre-adv	The applause is faint even in areas of the world where we should expect to find the greatest affection for free government , since the slogans have little application to reality and are sanctimonious to boot .
cg29.36.0	ref	Mr. Nehru is subjected to stern lectures on neutralism by our Department of State , and an American President observes sourly that Sweden would be a little less neurotic if it were a little more capitalistic '' .
cg29.36.1	post-adv	Mr. Nehru is subjected to stern lectures on neutralism by our Department of State , and an American President observes sourly that Sweden if it were a little more capitalistic would be a little less neurotic '' .
cg29.36.2	post-adj2	Mr. Nehru is subjected by our Department of State to stern lectures on neutralism , and an American President observes sourly that Sweden would be a little less neurotic if it were a little more capitalistic '' .
cg29.43.0	ref	The picture is the more treacherous when it misrepresents the facts of American life .
cg29.43.1	post-adv	When it misrepresents the facts of American life the picture is the more treacherous .
cg29.45.0	ref	If our sincerity is granted , and it is granted , the discrepancy can only be explained by the fact that we have come to believe hearsay and legend about ourselves in preference to an understanding gained by earnest self-examination .
cg29.45.1	pre-adv	And it is granted , the discrepancy can only be explained by the fact that we have come to believe hearsay and legend about ourselves in preference to an understanding gained by earnest self-examination if our sincerity is granted .
cg29.46.0	ref	What is more , the legends have become so sacrosanct that the very habit of self-examination or self-criticism smells of low treason , and men who practice it are defeatists and unpatriotic scoundrels .
cg29.46.1	pre-adv	The legends have become so sacrosanct that the very habit of self-examination or self-criticism smells of low treason , what is more , and men who practice it are defeatists and unpatriotic scoundrels .
cg29.47.0	ref	Although we continue to pay our conversational devotions to `` free private enterprise '' , `` individual initiative '' , `` the democratic way '' , `` government of the people '' , `` competition of the marketplace '' , etc. , we live rather comfortably in a society in which economic competition is diminishing in large areas , bureaucracy is corroding representative government , technology is weakening the citizen 's confidence in his own power to make decisions , and the threat of war is driving him economically and physically into the ground '' .
cg29.47.1	pre-adv	We live rather comfortably in a society in which economic competition is diminishing in large areas , bureaucracy is corroding representative government , technology is weakening the citizen 's confidence in his own power to make decisions , and the threat of war is driving him economically and physically into the ground , although we continue to pay our conversational devotions to `` free private enterprise '' , `` individual initiative '' , `` the democratic way '' , `` government of the people '' , `` competition of the marketplace '' , etc. '' .
cg29.54.0	ref	We feel uncomfortable at being bossed by a corporation or a union or a television set , but until we have some knowledge about these phenomena and what they are doing to us , we can hardly learn to control them .
cg29.54.1	pre-adv	We feel uncomfortable at being bossed by a corporation or a union or a television set , but we can hardly learn to control them , until we have some knowledge about these phenomena and what they are doing to us .
cg29.55.0	ref	It does not appear that we will be delivered from our situation by articles on The National Purpose .
cg29.55.1	post-adj2	It does not appear that we will be delivered by articles on The National Purpose from our situation .
cg29.61.0	ref	Going back over this ground and analyzing the composition of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , in Santa Barbara .
cg29.61.1	post-adj2	Going over this ground back and analyzing the composition of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , in Santa Barbara .
cg29.62.0	ref	But however we come , finally , to explain and account for the present , the truth we are trying to expose , right now , is that the makers of constitutions and the designers of institutions find it difficult if not impossible to anticipate the behavior of the host of all their enterprises .
cg29.62.1	pre-adv	But the truth we are trying to expose , right now , is that the makers of constitutions and the designers of institutions find it difficult if not impossible to anticipate the behavior of the host of all their enterprises , however we come , finally , to explain and account for the present .
cg29.68.0	ref	They tell us , sir , that we are free , because we have in one hand a ballot , and in the other a stock certificate .
cg29.68.1	dat-np-np	They tell sir , to us , that we are free , because we have in one hand a ballot , and in the other a stock certificate .
cg29.69.0	ref	With these we shape our destiny and own private property , and that , sir , makes ours the best of all possible societies .
cg29.69.1	dat-np-np	With these we shape our destiny and own private property , and that , sir , makes the best of all possible societies to ours .
cg30.9.0	ref	Moreover , the sun 's path over earth described a segment of a great circle ; this was clear from the contour of the shadow traced by a gnomon before and after noon .
cg30.9.1	post-adj2	Moreover , the sun 's path over earth described a segment of a great circle ; this was clear from the contour of the shadow traced before and after noon by a gnomon .
cg30.11.0	ref	Ships disappear hull-first over the horizon ; approaching shore their masts appeared first .
cg30.11.1	post-adj2	Ships disappear over the horizon hull-first ; approaching shore their masts appeared first .
cg30.18.0	ref	There were no reasons for such suppositions then .
cg30.18.1	post-adj2	There were no reasons then for such suppositions .
cg30.20.0	ref	Additional philosophical considerations , advanced notably by Aristotle , supported further the circularity principle .
cg30.20.1	post-adj2	Additional philosophical considerations , advanced by Aristotle notably , supported further the circularity principle .
cg30.25.0	ref	Circular motion , however , since it is eternal and perfectly continuous , lacks termini .
cg30.25.1	pre-adv	Circular motion , however lacks termini , since it is eternal and perfectly continuous .
cg30.28.0	ref	Perfect , complete entities , if they move at all , do not move towards what they lack .
cg30.28.1	pre-adv	Perfect , complete entities do not move towards what they lack , if they move at all .
cg30.31.0	ref	To return now to the four-element physics , a mixture of muddy , frothy water will , when standing in a jar , separate out with earth at the bottom , water on top , and the air on top of that .
cg30.31.1	post-adv	To return now to the four-element physics , when standing in a jar , a mixture of muddy , frothy water will separate out with earth at the bottom , water on top , and the air on top of that .
cg30.31.2	post-adj2	To return to the four-element physics now , a mixture of muddy , frothy water will , when standing in a jar , separate out with earth at the bottom , water on top , and the air on top of that .
cg30.35.0	ref	It is covered -LRB- partly -RRB- with water , air is atop of that .
cg30.35.1	post-adj2	It is covered -LRB- with water -RRB- partly , air is atop of that .
cg30.37.0	ref	When combined with the metaphysical notion that pure forms of this universe are best appreciated when least embodied in a material substratum , it becomes clear that while earth will be dross on a scale of material-formal ratios , celestial bodies will be of a subtle , quickened , ethereal existence , in whose embodiment pure form will be the dominant component and matter will be absent or remain subsidiary .
cg30.37.1	post-adv	When combined with the metaphysical notion that pure forms of this universe when least embodied in a material substratum are best appreciated , it becomes clear that while earth will be dross on a scale of material-formal ratios , celestial bodies will be of a subtle , quickened , ethereal existence , in whose embodiment pure form will be the dominant component and matter will be absent or remain subsidiary .
cg30.37.2	pre-adv	It becomes clear that while earth will be dross on a scale of material-formal ratios , celestial bodies will be of a subtle , quickened , ethereal existence , in whose embodiment pure form will be the dominant component and matter will be absent or remain subsidiary , when combined with the metaphysical notion that pure forms of this universe are best appreciated when least embodied in a material substratum .
cg30.37.3	pre-adv	When combined with the metaphysical notion that pure forms of this universe are best appreciated when least embodied in a material substratum , it becomes clear that celestial bodies will be of a subtle , quickened , ethereal existence , in whose embodiment pure form will be the dominant component , while earth will be dross on a scale of material-formal ratios , and matter will be absent or remain subsidiary .
cg30.39.0	ref	This is clear when one distinguishes the types of motion appropriate to both regions .
cg30.39.1	post-adv	When one distinguishes the types of motion appropriate to both regions this is clear .
cg30.48.0	ref	Indeed , in the Halma edition of Theon 's presentation of The Hypotheses there is a chart setting out -LRB- under six distinct headings -RRB- otherwise unrelated diagrams for describing the planetary motions .
cg30.48.1	pre-adj2	In the Halma edition of Theon 's presentation of The Hypotheses , indeed there is a chart setting out -LRB- under six distinct headings -RRB- otherwise unrelated diagrams for describing the planetary motions .
cg30.61.0	ref	So when textbooks , like that of Baker set out drawings of the ' Ptolemaic System ' , complete with earth in the center and the seven heavenly bodies epicyclically arranged on their several deferents , we have nothing but a misleading 20th-century idea of what never existed historically .
cg30.61.1	pre-adv	So we have nothing but a misleading 20th-century idea of what never existed historically , when textbooks , like that of Baker set out drawings of the ' Ptolemaic System ' , complete with earth in the center and the seven heavenly bodies epicyclically arranged on their several deferents .
cg30.65.0	ref	In Ptolemaic terms , however , eclipses and retrograde motion were phenomena simpliciter , to be explained directly as possible resultants of epicyclical combinations .
cg30.65.1	pre-adj2	However , in Ptolemaic terms , eclipses and retrograde motion were phenomena simpliciter , to be explained directly as possible resultants of epicyclical combinations .
cg30.65.2	post-adj2	In Ptolemaic terms , however , eclipses and retrograde motion were phenomena simpliciter , to be explained as possible resultants of epicyclical combinations directly .
cg30.73.0	ref	As an illustration of the principle of simplicity the heliocentric discovery has a peculiar appeal because it allows simplicity to be arithmetized ; it involves a reduction in the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen '' .
cg30.73.1	post-adv	Because it allows simplicity to be arithmetized ; it involves a reduction in the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen as an illustration of the principle of simplicity the heliocentric discovery has a peculiar appeal '' .
cg30.75.0	ref	If in any one calculation Ptolemy had had to invoke 83 epicycles all at once , while Copernicus never required more than one third this number , then -LRB- in the sense obvious to Margenau -RRB- Ptolemaic astronomy would be simpler than Copernican .
cg30.75.1	post-adv	If in any one calculation Ptolemy , while Copernicus never required more than one third this number , had had to invoke 83 epicycles all at once , then -LRB- in the sense obvious to Margenau -RRB- Ptolemaic astronomy would be simpler than Copernican .
cg30.75.2	pre-adv	Then -LRB- in the sense obvious to Margenau -RRB- Ptolemaic astronomy would be simpler than Copernican , if in any one calculation Ptolemy had had to invoke 83 epicycles all at once , while Copernicus never required more than one third this number .
cg30.76.0	ref	But no single planetary problem ever required of Ptolemy more than six epicycles at one time .
cg30.76.1	post-adj2	But no single planetary problem ever required at one time more than six epicycles of Ptolemy .
cg30.80.0	ref	This is more ambitious than Ptolemy is ever required to be when he faces his isolated problems .
cg30.80.1	post-adv	This is more ambitious than Ptolemy when he faces his isolated problems is ever required to be .
cg30.81.0	ref	Thus , in no ordinary sense of ' simplicity ' is the Ptolemaic theory simpler than the Copernican .
cg30.81.1	pre-adj2	In no ordinary sense of ' simplicity ' , thus is the Ptolemaic theory simpler than the Copernican .
cg30.84.0	ref	Analogously , anyone who argues that Einstein 's theory of gravitation is simpler than Newton 's , must say rather more to explain how it is that the latter is mastered by student-physicists , while the former can be managed -LRB- with difficulty -RRB- only by accomplished experts .
cg30.84.1	post-adv	Analogously , anyone who argues that Einstein 's theory of gravitation is simpler than Newton 's , must say rather more to explain how it is that the latter , while the former can be managed -LRB- with difficulty -RRB- only by accomplished experts , is mastered by student-physicists .
cg30.88.0	ref	The Axioms required to make the theoretical machinery operate are set out tersely and powerfully , so that all permissible operations within the theory can be traced rigorously back to these axioms , rules , and primitive notions .
cg30.88.1	post-adv	The Axioms required to make the theoretical machinery operate , so that all permissible operations within the theory can be traced rigorously back to these axioms , rules , and primitive notions , are set out tersely and powerfully .
cg30.107.0	ref	The formal displacement of the geocentric principle far from being Copernicus ' primary concern , was introduced only to resolve what seemed to him intolerable in orthodox astronomy , namely , the ' unphysical ' triplication of centric reference-points : one center from which the planet 's distances were calculated , another around which planetary velocities were computed , and still a third center -LRB- the earth -RRB- from which the observations originated .
cg30.107.1	post-adj2	The formal displacement of the geocentric principle far from being Copernicus ' primary concern , was introduced only to resolve what seemed in orthodox astronomy intolerable to him , namely , the ' unphysical ' triplication of centric reference-points : one center from which the planet 's distances were calculated , another around which planetary velocities were computed , and still a third center -LRB- the earth -RRB- from which the observations originated .
cg30.108.0	ref	This arrangement was for Copernicus literally monstrous : `` With -LRB- the Ptolemaists -RRB- it is as though an artist were to gather the hands , feet , head and other members for his images from divers models , each part excellently drawn , but not related to a single body ; and since they in no way match each other , the result would be a monster rather than a man '' .
cg30.108.1	pre-adv	This arrangement was for Copernicus literally monstrous : `` With -LRB- the Ptolemaists -RRB- it is as though an artist were to gather the hands , feet , head and other members for his images from divers models , each part excellently drawn , but not related to a single body ; and the result would be a monster rather than a man , since they in no way match each other '' .
cg30.111.0	ref	That such deficiencies existed within Ptolemy 's theory was not discovered de novo by Copernicus .
cg30.111.1	post-adj2	That such deficiencies existed within Ptolemy 's theory was not discovered by Copernicus de novo .
cg30.113.0	ref	The latter looked backward upon inherited deficiencies .
cg30.113.1	post-adj2	The latter looked upon inherited deficiencies backward .
cg31.4.0	ref	One is so accustomed to think of men as the privileged who need but ask and receive , and women as submissive and yielding , that our sympathies are usually enlisted on the side of the man whose love is not returned , and we condemn the woman as a coquette .
cg31.4.1	post-adj2	One is so accustomed to think as the privileged who need but ask and receive of men , and women as submissive and yielding , that our sympathies are usually enlisted on the side of the man whose love is not returned , and we condemn the woman as a coquette .
cg31.5.0	ref	The very firmness of her convictions and logical clearness of her arguments captivated and stimulated him to make greater efforts ; usually , this is most exasperating to men , who expect every woman to verify their preconceived notions concerning her sex , and when she does not , immediately condemn her as eccentric and unwomanly .
cg31.5.1	post-adv	The very firmness of her convictions and logical clearness of her arguments captivated and stimulated him to make greater efforts ; usually , this is most exasperating to men , who , when she does not , expect every woman to verify their preconceived notions concerning her sex , and immediately condemn her as eccentric and unwomanly .
cg31.7.0	ref	Women themselves have come to look upon matters in the same light as the outside world , and scarcely find any wrong in submitting to the importunities of a stronger will , even when their affections are withheld .
cg31.7.1	post-adj2	Women themselves have come to look in the same light as the outside world upon matters , and scarcely find any wrong in submitting to the importunities of a stronger will , even when their affections are withheld .
cg31.12.0	ref	Henrietta was discovering in the process of writing , as the born writer does , not merely a channel for the discharge of accumulated information but a stimulus to the development of the creative powers of observation , insight and intuition .
cg31.12.1	post-adv	Henrietta , as the born writer does , was discovering in the process of writing not merely a channel for the discharge of accumulated information but a stimulus to the development of the creative powers of observation , insight and intuition .
cg31.16.0	ref	By her eighteenth birthday her bent for writing was so evident that Papa and Mamma gave her a Life Of Dickens as a spur to her aspiration .
cg31.16.1	dat-np-np	By her eighteenth birthday her bent for writing was so evident that Papa and Mamma gave a Life Of Dickens to her as a spur to her aspiration .
cg31.17.0	ref	Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened to her at that time by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within walking distance of home .
cg31.17.1	post-adj3	Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened at that time to her by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within walking distance of home .
cg31.17.2	post-adj3	Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within walking distance of home at that time to her .
cg31.17.3	post-adj3	Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened to her by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within walking distance of home at that time .
cg31.17.4	post-adj3	Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within walking distance of home to her at that time .
cg31.17.5	post-adj3	Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened at that time by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within walking distance of home to her .
cg31.18.0	ref	It was established in a couple of buildings in the shopping district , with only a few professors , but all eminent men , and a few hundred eager students housed in nearby dwellings .
cg31.18.1	post-adj2	It was established with only a few professors , in a couple of buildings in the shopping district , but all eminent men , and a few hundred eager students housed in nearby dwellings .
cg31.19.0	ref	In September '76 Thomas Huxley , Darwin 's famous disciple , came from England to speak in a crowded auditorium at the formal opening of the University ; and although it was a school for men only , it afforded Henrietta an opportunity to attend its public lectures .
cg31.19.1	dat-np-np	In September '76 Thomas Huxley , Darwin 's famous disciple , came from England to speak in a crowded auditorium at the formal opening of the University ; and although it was a school for men only , it afforded an opportunity to attend its public lectures to Henrietta .
cg31.19.2	pre-adv	In September '76 Thomas Huxley , Darwin 's famous disciple , came from England to speak in a crowded auditorium at the formal opening of the University ; and it afforded Henrietta an opportunity to attend its public lectures , although it was a school for men only .
cg31.20.0	ref	In the following year her father undertook to give a course in Hebrew theology to Johns Hopkins students , and this brought to the Szold house a group of bright young Jews who had come to Baltimore to study , and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by Mamma and entertained by Henrietta and Rachel , who played and sang for them in the upstairs sitting room on Sunday evenings .
cg31.20.1	dat-np-pp	In the following year her father undertook to give Johns Hopkins students a course in Hebrew theology , and this brought to the Szold house a group of bright young Jews who had come to Baltimore to study , and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by Mamma and entertained by Henrietta and Rachel , who played and sang for them in the upstairs sitting room on Sunday evenings .
cg31.25.0	ref	His father was a good friend of Rabbi Szold , and Joe lived with the Szolds for a while .
cg31.25.1	post-adj2	His father was a good friend of Rabbi Szold , and Joe lived for a while with the Szolds .
cg31.26.0	ref	Both these youths , who greatly admired Henrietta , were somewhat younger than she , as were also the neighboring Friedenwald boys , who were then studying medicine ; and bright though they all were , they could not possibly compete for her interest with Papa , whose mind -- although he never tried to dazzle or patronize lesser lights with it -- naturally eclipsed theirs and made them seem to her even younger than they were .
cg31.26.1	pre-adv	Both these youths , who greatly admired Henrietta , were somewhat younger than she , as were also the neighboring Friedenwald boys , who were then studying medicine ; and bright though they all were , they could not possibly compete for her interest with Papa , whose mind -- naturally eclipsed theirs and made them seem to her even younger than they were -- although he never tried to dazzle or patronize lesser lights with it .
cg31.27.0	ref	Besides , Miss Henrietta -- as she was generally known since she had put up her hair with a chignon in the back -- had little time to spare them from her teaching and writing ; so Cyrus Adler became interested in her friend Racie Friedenwald , and Joe Jastrow -- the only young man who when he wrote had the temerity to address her as Henrietta , and signed himself Joe -- fell in love with pretty sister Rachel .
cg31.27.1	post-adv	Besides , Miss Henrietta -- as she since she had put up her hair with a chignon in the back was generally known -- had little time to spare them from her teaching and writing ; so Cyrus Adler became interested in her friend Racie Friedenwald , and Joe Jastrow -- the only young man who when he wrote had the temerity to address her as Henrietta , and signed himself Joe -- fell in love with pretty sister Rachel .
cg31.27.2	pre-adv	Besides , Miss Henrietta had little time to spare them from her teaching and writing -- as she was generally known since she had put up her hair with a chignon in the back ; so Cyrus Adler became interested in her friend Racie Friedenwald , and Joe Jastrow -- the only young man who when he wrote had the temerity to address her as Henrietta , and signed himself Joe -- fell in love with pretty sister Rachel .
cg31.27.3	pre-adv	Besides , Miss Henrietta -- as she was generally known since she had put up her hair with a chignon in the back -- had little time to spare them from her teaching and writing ; so Cyrus Adler became interested in her friend Racie Friedenwald , and Joe Jastrow -- the only young man who had the temerity to address her as Henrietta , and signed himself Joe when he wrote -- fell in love with pretty sister Rachel .
cg31.29.0	ref	Young Morris , who , while attending the University of Pennsylvania , also taught and edited a paper , found time to write Henrietta twenty-page letters on everything that engaged his interest , from the acting of Sarah Bernhardt in Philadelphia to his reactions to the comments of `` Sulamith '' on the Jewish reform movement being promulgated by the Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati .
cg31.29.1	dat-np-np	Young Morris , who , while attending the University of Pennsylvania , also taught and edited a paper , found time to write twenty-page letters on everything that engaged his interest , from the acting of Sarah Bernhardt in Philadelphia to his reactions to the comments of `` Sulamith '' on the Jewish reform movement being promulgated by the Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati to Henrietta .
cg31.29.2	pre-adv	Young Morris , who , also taught and edited a paper , while attending the University of Pennsylvania , found time to write Henrietta twenty-page letters on everything that engaged his interest , from the acting of Sarah Bernhardt in Philadelphia to his reactions to the comments of `` Sulamith '' on the Jewish reform movement being promulgated by the Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati .
cg31.30.0	ref	Unlike his younger brother , Joe , he never presumed to address her more familiarly than as `` My dear friend '' , although he praised and envied the elegance and purity of her style .
cg31.30.1	post-adv	Although he praised and envied the elegance and purity of her style , unlike his younger brother , Joe , he never presumed to address her more familiarly than as `` My dear friend '' .
cg31.31.0	ref	And when he complained of the lack of time for all he wanted to do , Henrietta advised him to rise at five in the morning as she and Papa did .
cg31.31.1	pre-adv	And Henrietta advised him to rise at five in the morning as she and Papa did , when he complained of the lack of time for all he wanted to do .
cg31.33.0	ref	She could not resist the opportunity `` of showing her superiority in argument over a man '' which she had remarked as one of the `` feminine follies '' of Sara Sullam ; and in her forthright way , Henrietta , who in her story of Sara had indicated her own unwillingness `` to think of men as the privileged '' and `` women as submissive and yielding '' , felt obliged to defend vigorously any statement of hers to which Morris Jastrow took the slightest exception -- he objected to her stand on the Corbin affair , as well as on the radical reforms of Dr. Wise of Hebrew Union College -- until once , in sheer desperation , he wrote that he had given up hope they would ever agree on anything .
cg31.33.1	post-adv	She could not resist the opportunity `` of showing her superiority in argument over a man '' which she had remarked as one of the `` feminine follies '' of Sara Sullam ; and in her forthright way , Henrietta , who in her story of Sara had indicated her own unwillingness `` to think of men as the privileged '' and `` women as submissive and yielding '' , felt obliged until once , in sheer desperation , he wrote that he had given up hope they would ever agree on anything to defend vigorously any statement of hers to which Morris Jastrow took the slightest exception -- he objected to her stand on the Corbin affair , as well as on the radical reforms of Dr. Wise of Hebrew Union College .
cg31.35.0	ref	1880s : `` little women '' `` we 've got Father and Mother and each other '' said Beth on the first page of Louisa Alcott 's Little Women ; and , `` I do think that families are the most beautiful things in all the world '' , burst out Jo some five hundred pages later in that popular story of the March family , which had first appeared when Henrietta was eight ; and the Szold family , as it developed , bore a striking resemblance to the Marches .
cg31.35.1	post-adv	1880s : `` little women '' `` we 've got Father and Mother and each other '' said Beth on the first page of Louisa Alcott 's Little Women ; and , `` I do think that families are the most beautiful things in all the world '' , burst out Jo some five hundred pages later in that popular story of the March family , which when Henrietta was eight had first appeared ; and the Szold family , as it developed , bore a striking resemblance to the Marches .
cg31.35.2	pre-adv	1880s : `` little women '' `` we 've got Father and Mother and each other '' said Beth on the first page of Louisa Alcott 's Little Women ; and , `` I do think that families are the most beautiful things in all the world '' , burst out Jo some five hundred pages later in that popular story of the March family , which had first appeared when Henrietta was eight ; and the Szold family bore a striking resemblance to the Marches , as it developed .
cg31.38.0	ref	Henrietta could easily identify herself with Jo March , although Jo was not the eldest sister .
cg31.38.1	post-adv	Henrietta , although Jo was not the eldest sister , could easily identify herself with Jo March .
cg31.41.0	ref	Each was her mother 's assistant and confidante ; and each stood out conspicuously in the family picture .
cg31.41.1	post-adj2	Each was her mother 's assistant and confidante ; and each stood out in the family picture conspicuously .
cg31.45.0	ref	When her right hand was incapacitated by the rheumatism , Sadie learned to write with her left hand .
cg31.45.1	pre-adv	Sadie learned to write with her left hand , when her right hand was incapacitated by the rheumatism .
cg31.51.0	ref	This included Mamma , jolly , generous , and pretty , with whom they all fell in love , just as Papa had first fallen in love with her Mamma before he chose her ; and when a young man like Morris Jastrow had enjoyed the Szold hospitality , he felt obliged to send his respects and his gifts not merely to Henrietta , in whom he was really interested , but to all the Szold girls and Mamma .
cg31.51.1	post-adv	This included Mamma , jolly , generous , and pretty , with whom , just as Papa had first fallen in love with her Mamma before he chose her , they all fell in love ; and when a young man like Morris Jastrow had enjoyed the Szold hospitality , he felt obliged to send his respects and his gifts not merely to Henrietta , in whom he was really interested , but to all the Szold girls and Mamma .
cg31.51.2	post-adv	This included Mamma , jolly , generous , and pretty , with whom they all fell in love , just as Papa before he chose her had first fallen in love with her Mamma ; and when a young man like Morris Jastrow had enjoyed the Szold hospitality , he felt obliged to send his respects and his gifts not merely to Henrietta , in whom he was really interested , but to all the Szold girls and Mamma .
cg31.51.3	pre-adv	This included Mamma , jolly , generous , and pretty , with whom they all fell in love , just as Papa had first fallen in love with her Mamma before he chose her ; and he felt obliged to send his respects and his gifts not merely to Henrietta , in whom he was really interested , but to all the Szold girls and Mamma , when a young man like Morris Jastrow had enjoyed the Szold hospitality .
cg31.52.0	ref	And just as `` Laurie '' Lawrence was first attracted to bright Jo March , who found him immature by her high standards , and then had to content himself with her younger sister Amy , so Joe Jastrow , who had also been writing Henrietta before he came to Johns Hopkins , had to content himself with her younger sister , pretty Rachel .
cg31.52.1	post-adv	And just as `` Laurie '' Lawrence was first attracted to bright Jo March , who found him immature by her high standards , and then had to content himself with her younger sister Amy , so Joe Jastrow , who had also before he came to Johns Hopkins been writing Henrietta , had to content himself with her younger sister , pretty Rachel .
cg31.52.2	pre-adv	And so Joe Jastrow , who had also been writing Henrietta before he came to Johns Hopkins , had to content himself with her younger sister , pretty Rachel , just as `` Laurie '' Lawrence was first attracted to bright Jo March , who found him immature by her high standards , and then had to content himself with her younger sister Amy .
cg31.53.0	ref	And like Jo March , who saw her sisters Meg and Amy involved in `` lovering '' before herself , Henrietta saw her sisters Rachel and Sadie drawn outside their family circle by the attraction of suitors , Rachel by Joe Jastrow , and Sadie by Max Lobl , a young businessman who would write her romantic descriptions of his trips by steamboat down the Mississippi .
cg31.53.1	dat-np-np	And like Jo March , who saw her sisters Meg and Amy involved in `` lovering '' before herself , Henrietta saw her sisters Rachel and Sadie drawn outside their family circle by the attraction of suitors , Rachel by Joe Jastrow , and Sadie by Max Lobl , a young businessman who would write romantic descriptions of his trips by steamboat down the Mississippi to her .
cg31.53.2	post-adj2	And like Jo March , who saw her sisters Meg and Amy involved before herself in `` lovering '' , Henrietta saw her sisters Rachel and Sadie drawn outside their family circle by the attraction of suitors , Rachel by Joe Jastrow , and Sadie by Max Lobl , a young businessman who would write her romantic descriptions of his trips by steamboat down the Mississippi .
cg32.11.0	ref	At last her lawyer , Arthur D. Cloud , gave up the case because she turned down three successive settlements he arranged .
cg32.11.1	post-adv	Because she turned down three successive settlements he arranged at last her lawyer , Arthur D. Cloud , gave up the case .
cg32.15.0	ref	The first thing to do is get her some money by a temporary but definite adjustment pending a final disposition of the case .
cg32.15.1	dat-np-np	The first thing to do is get some money to her by a temporary but definite adjustment pending a final disposition of the case .
cg32.20.0	ref	Yet somehow , when officers were prodded into visiting Taliesin to execute the warrants , they would find neither Wright nor Olgivanna at home .
cg32.20.1	pre-adj2	Somehow yet , when officers were prodded into visiting Taliesin to execute the warrants , they would find neither Wright nor Olgivanna at home .
cg32.20.2	pre-adv	Yet somehow they would find neither Wright nor Olgivanna at home , when officers were prodded into visiting Taliesin to execute the warrants .
cg32.21.0	ref	This showed that common sense had not died out at the county and village level -- though why the unhappy and obviously unbalanced woman was not restrained remains a puzzle .
cg32.21.1	post-adv	Though why the unhappy and obviously unbalanced woman was not restrained remains a puzzle -- this showed that common sense had not died out at the county and village level .
cg32.22.0	ref	The misery of Miriam 's bitterness can be felt today by anyone who studies the case -- it was hopeless , agonizing , and destructive , with Miriam herself bearing the heaviest burden of shame and pain .
cg32.22.1	post-adj2	The misery of Miriam 's bitterness can be felt by anyone who studies the case today -- it was hopeless , agonizing , and destructive , with Miriam herself bearing the heaviest burden of shame and pain .
cg32.24.0	ref	One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred at Spring Green toward the end of the open warfare , on a beautiful day in June .
cg32.24.1	post-adj3	One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred toward the end of the open warfare at Spring Green , on a beautiful day in June .
cg32.24.2	post-adj3	One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred on a beautiful day in June toward the end of the open warfare , at Spring Green .
cg32.24.3	post-adj3	One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred at Spring Green on a beautiful day in June , toward the end of the open warfare .
cg32.24.4	post-adj3	One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred , on a beautiful day in June , at Spring Green toward the end of the open warfare .
cg32.24.5	post-adj3	One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred toward the end of the open warfare , on a beautiful day in June at Spring Green .
cg32.30.0	ref	At this point Mrs. Frances Cupply , one of Wright 's handsome daughters by his first wife , came from the house and tried to calm Miriam as she tore down a no visitors sign and smashed the glass pane on another sign with a rock .
cg32.30.1	post-adv	At this point Mrs. Frances Cupply , one of Wright 's handsome daughters by his first wife , came from the house and tried as she tore down a no visitors sign and smashed the glass pane on another sign with a rock to calm Miriam .
cg32.33.0	ref	When I take over Taliesin , the first thing I 'll do is fire you '' .
cg32.33.1	pre-adv	The first thing I 'll do is fire you , when I take over Taliesin '' .
cg32.34.0	ref	`` Madame Noel , I think you had better go '' , said Mrs. Cupply .
cg32.34.1	iquote	`` Madame Noel , I think you had better go '' , Mrs. Cupply said .
cg32.35.0	ref	`` And I think you had better leave '' , replied Miriam .
cg32.35.1	iquote	`` And I think you had better leave '' , Miriam replied .
cg32.40.0	ref	Then , with staring eyes and lips drawn thin , Miriam said to the young woman , `` You are ugly -- uglier than you used to be , and you were always very ugly .
cg32.40.1	pre-adj2	With staring eyes and lips drawn thin , then , Miriam said to the young woman , `` You are ugly -- uglier than you used to be , and you were always very ugly .
cg32.42.0	ref	The animosity expressed by such a scene had the penetrating quality of a natural force ; and it gave Miriam Noel a fund of energy like that of a person inspired to complete some great and universal work of art .
cg32.42.1	dat-np-np	The animosity expressed by such a scene had the penetrating quality of a natural force ; and it gave a fund of energy like that of a person inspired to complete some great and universal work of art to Miriam Noel .
cg32.43.0	ref	As if to make certain that Wright would be unable to pay any settlement at all , Miriam wrote to prospective clients denouncing him ; she also went to Washington and appealed to Senator George William Norris of Nebraska , the Fighting Liberal , from whose office a sympathetic but cautious harrumphing was heard .
cg32.43.1	pre-adv	Miriam wrote to prospective clients denouncing him , as if to make certain that Wright would be unable to pay any settlement at all ; she also went to Washington and appealed to Senator George William Norris of Nebraska , the Fighting Liberal , from whose office a sympathetic but cautious harrumphing was heard .
cg32.44.0	ref	Then , after overtures to accept a settlement and go through with a divorce , Miriam gave a ghastly echo of Mrs. Micawber by suddenly stating , `` I will never leave Mr. Wright '' .
cg32.44.1	pre-adj2	After overtures to accept a settlement and go through with a divorce , then , Miriam gave a ghastly echo of Mrs. Micawber by suddenly stating , `` I will never leave Mr. Wright '' .
cg32.46.0	ref	Miriam had not yet goaded him into mentioning her directly , but one can feel the generalized anger in Wright 's remarks to reporters when he was asked , one morning on arrival in Chicago , what he thought of the city as a whole .
cg32.46.1	post-adv	Miriam had not yet goaded him into mentioning her directly , but one when he was asked , one morning on arrival in Chicago , what he thought of the city as a whole can feel the generalized anger in Wright 's remarks to reporters .
cg32.49.0	ref	`` That is n't a boulevard , it 's a racetrack '' ! Cried Wright , showing that automobiles were considered to be a danger as early as the 1920 's .
cg32.49.1	iquote	`` That is n't a boulevard , it 's a racetrack '' ! Wright cried , showing that automobiles were considered to be a danger as early as the 1920 's .
cg32.50.0	ref	`` This is a horrible way to live '' , Wright went on .
cg32.50.1	quote	`` This is a horrible way to live '' , went Wright on .
cg32.52.0	ref	He was then asked for a solution of the difficulty , and began to talk trenchant sense , though private anguish showed through in the vehemence of his manner .
cg32.52.1	post-adv	He was then asked for a solution of the difficulty , and began , though private anguish showed through in the vehemence of his manner , to talk trenchant sense .
cg32.57.0	ref	If you cut down these horrible buildings you 'll have no more traffic jams .
cg32.57.1	pre-adv	You 'll have no more traffic jams if you cut down these horrible buildings .
cg32.60.0	ref	After all , that 's the job of the architect -- to give the world a little joy '' .
cg32.60.1	dat-np-np	After all , that 's the job of the architect -- to give a little joy to the world '' .
cg32.61.0	ref	Little enough joy was afforded Wright in the spring of 1925 , when another destructive fire broke out at Taliesin .
cg32.61.1	post-adv	Little enough joy when another destructive fire broke out at Taliesin was afforded Wright in the spring of 1925 .
cg32.62.0	ref	The first news stories had it that this blaze was started by a bolt of lightning , as though Miriam could call down fire from heaven like a prophet of the Old Testament .
cg32.62.1	post-adv	The first news stories had it that this blaze , as though Miriam could call down fire from heaven like a prophet of the Old Testament , was started by a bolt of lightning .
cg32.63.0	ref	A storm did take place that night , and fortunately enough , it included a cloudburst that helped put out the flames .
cg32.63.1	dat-np-np	A storm did take that night to place , and fortunately enough , it included a cloudburst that helped put out the flames .
cg32.69.0	ref	While this was under consideration , dauntless as ever Wright set about the building of Taliesin 3 .
cg32.69.1	pre-adv	Dauntless as ever Wright set about the building of Taliesin 3 , while this was under consideration .
cg32.70.0	ref	As he made plans for the new Taliesin , Wright also got on paper his conception of a cathedral of steel and glass to house a congregation of all faiths , and the idea for a planetarium with a sloping ramp .
cg32.70.1	pre-adv	Wright also got on paper his conception of a cathedral of steel and glass to house a congregation of all faiths , and the idea for a planetarium with a sloping ramp , as he made plans for the new Taliesin .
cg32.71.0	ref	Years were to pass before these plans came off the paper , and Wright was justified in thinking , as the projects failed , that much of what he had to show his country and the world would never be seen except by visitors to Taliesin .
cg32.71.1	post-adv	Years were to pass before these plans came off the paper , and Wright was justified in , as the projects failed , thinking that much of what he had to show his country and the world would never be seen except by visitors to Taliesin .
cg32.74.0	ref	This might put Wright in such a bad light before a court that Miriam would be awarded Taliesin ; nor was she moved by a letter from Wright pointing out that if he was not `` compelled to spend money on useless lawyer 's bills , useless hotel bills , and useless doctor 's bills '' , he could more quickly provide Miriam with a suitable home either in Los Angeles or Paris , as she preferred .
cg32.74.1	post-adv	This might put Wright in such a bad light before a court that Miriam would be awarded Taliesin ; nor was she moved by a letter from Wright pointing out that if he was not `` compelled to spend money on useless lawyer 's bills , useless hotel bills , and useless doctor 's bills '' , he , as she preferred , could more quickly provide Miriam with a suitable home either in Los Angeles or Paris .
cg32.74.2	pre-adv	This might put Wright in such a bad light before a court that Miriam would be awarded Taliesin ; nor was she moved by a letter from Wright pointing out that he could more quickly provide Miriam with a suitable home either in Los Angeles or Paris , as she preferred , if he was not `` compelled to spend money on useless lawyer 's bills , useless hotel bills , and useless doctor 's bills '' .
cg32.77.0	ref	What irritated Miriam was that Wright had told the papers about a reasonable offer he had made , which he considered she would accept `` when she tires of publicity '' .
cg32.77.1	post-adv	What irritated Miriam was that Wright had told the papers about a reasonable offer he had made , which he considered she `` when she tires of publicity '' would accept .
cg32.81.0	ref	He said that the architect might reasonably be expected to carry his financial burdens if all harrassment could be brought to an end , and that the bank would accept a mortgage on Taliesin to help bring this about .
cg32.81.1	post-adv	He said that the architect might reasonably if all harrassment could be brought to an end be expected to carry his financial burdens , and that the bank would accept a mortgage on Taliesin to help bring this about .
cg32.82.0	ref	Miriam said that she must be assured that `` that other woman , Olga , will not be in luxury while I am scraping along '' .
cg32.82.1	post-adv	Miriam said that she must be assured that `` that other woman , Olga , while I am scraping along will not be in luxury '' .
cg32.83.0	ref	This exhausted Wright 's patience , and in consequence he talked freely to reporters in a Madison hotel suite .
cg32.83.1	post-adj3	This exhausted Wright 's patience , and in consequence he talked to reporters freely in a Madison hotel suite .
cg32.83.2	post-adj3	This exhausted Wright 's patience , and in consequence he talked in a Madison hotel suite to reporters freely .
cg32.83.3	post-adj3	This exhausted Wright 's patience , and in consequence he talked freely in a Madison hotel suite to reporters .
cg32.83.4	post-adj3	This exhausted Wright 's patience , and in consequence he talked in a Madison hotel suite freely to reporters .
cg32.83.5	post-adj3	This exhausted Wright 's patience , and in consequence he talked to reporters in a Madison hotel suite freely .
cg32.84.0	ref	`` Volstead laws , speed laws , divorce laws '' , he said , `` as they now stand , demoralize the individual , make liars and law breakers of us in one way or another , and tend to make our experiment in democracy absurd .
cg32.84.1	pre-adv	`` Volstead laws , speed laws , divorce laws '' , he said , demoralize the individual , make liars and law breakers of us in one way or another , and tend to make our experiment in democracy absurd `` as they now stand .
cg32.85.0	ref	If Mrs. Wright does n't accept the terms in the morning , I 'll go either to Tokyo or to Holland , to do what I can .
cg32.85.1	pre-adv	I 'll go either to Tokyo or to Holland , to do what I can , if Mrs. Wright does n't accept the terms in the morning .
cg32.87.0	ref	Here Wright gave a slight sigh of weariness , and continued , `` It means more long years lived across the social grain of the life of our people , making shift to live in the face of popular disrespect and misunderstanding as I best can for myself and those dependent upon me '' .
cg32.87.1	post-adv	Here Wright gave a slight sigh of weariness , and continued , `` It means more long years lived across the social grain of the life of our people , making shift as I best can to live in the face of popular disrespect and misunderstanding for myself and those dependent upon me '' .
cg33.1.0	ref	More likely , you simply told yourself , as you handed us the book , that it mattered little what we incanted providing we underwent the discipline of incantation .
cg33.1.1	dat-np-np	More likely , you simply told yourself , as you handed the book to us , that it mattered little what we incanted providing we underwent the discipline of incantation .
cg33.1.2	post-adv	As you handed us the book , more likely , you simply told yourself that it mattered little what we incanted providing we underwent the discipline of incantation .
cg33.1.3	post-adj2	More likely , you simply told yourself , as you handed us the book , that it mattered providing we underwent the discipline of incantation what we incanted little .
cg33.5.0	ref	I do not suppose you ever heard of F. Scott Fitzgerald , living or dead , and moreover I do not suppose that , even if you had , his legend would have seemed to you to warrant more than a cluck of disapproval .
cg33.5.1	pre-adv	I do not suppose you ever heard of F. Scott Fitzgerald , living or dead , and moreover I do not suppose that , his legend would have seemed to you to warrant more than a cluck of disapproval , even if you had .
cg33.9.0	ref	Although his tender nights were not the ones I dreamed of , nor was it for yachts , sports cars , tall drinks , and swimming pools , nor yet for money or what money buys that I burned , I too was burning and watching myself burn .
cg33.9.1	pre-adv	I too was burning and watching myself burn , although his tender nights were not the ones I dreamed of , nor was it for yachts , sports cars , tall drinks , and swimming pools , nor yet for money or what money buys that I burned .
cg33.11.0	ref	It was symbolized -LRB- at least for those of us who recognized ourselves in the image -RRB- by that self-consuming , elegiac candle of Edna St. Vincent Millay 's , that candle which from the quatrain where she ensconced it became a beacon to us , but which in point of fact would have had to be as tall as a funeral taper to last even the evening , let alone the night .
cg33.11.1	post-adj2	It was symbolized -LRB- by that self-consuming , elegiac candle of Edna St. Vincent Millay 's , that candle which from the quatrain where she ensconced it became a beacon to us , but which in point of fact would have had to be as tall as a funeral taper to last even the evening , let alone the night -RRB- at least for those of us who recognized ourselves in the image .
cg33.13.0	ref	Yet this passion for passion , now that I look back on it with passion spent , seems somewhat overblown and operatic , though as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes .
cg33.13.1	post-adj3	Yet this passion for passion , now that I look on it back with passion spent , seems somewhat overblown and operatic , though as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes .
cg33.13.2	post-adj3	Yet this passion for passion , now that I look with passion spent on it back , seems somewhat overblown and operatic , though as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes .
cg33.13.3	post-adj3	Yet this passion for passion , now that I look back with passion spent on it , seems somewhat overblown and operatic , though as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes .
cg33.13.4	post-adj3	Yet this passion for passion , now that I look with passion spent back on it , seems somewhat overblown and operatic , though as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes .
cg33.13.5	post-adj3	Yet this passion for passion , now that I look on it with passion spent back , seems somewhat overblown and operatic , though as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes .
cg33.21.0	ref	But all this , I am well aware , is the bel canto of love , and although I have always liked to think that it was to the bel canto and to that alone that I listened , I know well enough that it was not .
cg33.21.1	pre-adv	But all this , I am well aware , is the bel canto of love , and I know well enough that it was not , although I have always liked to think that it was to the bel canto and to that alone that I listened .
cg33.24.0	ref	Whether you experienced the passion of desire I have , of course , no way of knowing , nor indeed have I wished with even the most fleeting fragment of a wish to know , for the fact that one constitutes by one 's mere existence so to speak the proof of some sort of passion makes any speculation upon this part of one 's parents ' experience more immodest , more scandalizing , more deeply unwelcome than an obscenity from a stranger .
cg33.24.1	post-adv	Whether you experienced the passion of desire I have , of course , no way of knowing , nor indeed have I wished with even the most fleeting fragment of a wish to know , for the fact that so to speak one constitutes by one 's mere existence the proof of some sort of passion makes any speculation upon this part of one 's parents ' experience more immodest , more scandalizing , more deeply unwelcome than an obscenity from a stranger .
cg33.24.2	pre-adv	I have , of course , no way of knowing , whether you experienced the passion of desire , nor indeed have I wished with even the most fleeting fragment of a wish to know , for the fact that one constitutes by one 's mere existence so to speak the proof of some sort of passion makes any speculation upon this part of one 's parents ' experience more immodest , more scandalizing , more deeply unwelcome than an obscenity from a stranger .
cg33.26.0	ref	At the same time , I am aware that my recoil could be interpreted by readers of the tea leaves at the bottom of my psyche as an incestuous sign , since theirs is a science of paradox : if one hates , they say it is because one loves ; if one bullies , they say it is because one is afraid ; if one shuns , they say it is because one desires ; and according to them , whatever one fancies one feels , what one feels in fact is the opposite .
cg33.26.1	post-adv	At the same time , I am aware that my recoil could , since theirs is a science of paradox , be interpreted by readers of the tea leaves at the bottom of my psyche as an incestuous sign : if one hates , they say it is because one loves ; if one bullies , they say it is because one is afraid ; if one shuns , they say it is because one desires ; and according to them , whatever one fancies one feels , what one feels in fact is the opposite .
cg33.26.2	pre-adv	At the same time , I am aware that my recoil could be interpreted by readers of the tea leaves at the bottom of my psyche as an incestuous sign , since theirs is a science of paradox : they say it is because one loves , if one hates ; if one bullies , they say it is because one is afraid ; if one shuns , they say it is because one desires ; and according to them , whatever one fancies one feels , what one feels in fact is the opposite .
cg33.26.3	pre-adv	At the same time , I am aware that my recoil could be interpreted by readers of the tea leaves at the bottom of my psyche as an incestuous sign , since theirs is a science of paradox : if one hates , they say it is because one loves ; they say it is because one is afraid , if one bullies ; if one shuns , they say it is because one desires ; and according to them , whatever one fancies one feels , what one feels in fact is the opposite .
cg33.26.4	pre-adv	At the same time , I am aware that my recoil could be interpreted by readers of the tea leaves at the bottom of my psyche as an incestuous sign , since theirs is a science of paradox : if one hates , they say it is because one loves ; if one bullies , they say it is because one is afraid ; they say it is because one desires , if one shuns ; and according to them , whatever one fancies one feels , what one feels in fact is the opposite .
cg33.26.5	pre-adv	At the same time , I am aware that my recoil could be interpreted by readers of the tea leaves at the bottom of my psyche as an incestuous sign , since theirs is a science of paradox : if one hates , they say it is because one loves ; if one bullies , they say it is because one is afraid ; if one shuns , they say it is because one desires ; and according to them what one feels in fact is the opposite , whatever one fancies one feels .
cg33.26.6	post-adj2	At the same time , I am aware that my recoil could be interpreted as an incestuous sign by readers of the tea leaves at the bottom of my psyche , since theirs is a science of paradox : if one hates , they say it is because one loves ; if one bullies , they say it is because one is afraid ; if one shuns , they say it is because one desires ; and according to them , whatever one fancies one feels , what one feels in fact is the opposite .
cg33.28.0	ref	You probably would not remember , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out with me for some final shopping less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm .
cg33.28.1	post-adv	You probably , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , would not remember one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out with me for some final shopping less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm .
cg33.28.2	post-adj3	You probably would not remember , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out for some final shopping with me less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm .
cg33.28.3	post-adj3	You probably would not remember , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm for some final shopping with me .
cg33.28.4	post-adj3	You probably would not remember , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out with me less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm for some final shopping .
cg33.28.5	post-adj3	You probably would not remember , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out , less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm , with me for some final shopping .
cg33.28.6	post-adj3	You probably would not remember , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out for some final shopping less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm , with me .
cg33.31.0	ref	We had stopped before a shop window to assess its autumnal display , when you suddenly turned to me , looking up from beneath one of your wrong hats , and with your nervous `` ahem '' ! Said : `` There are things I must tell you about this man you are marrying which he does not know himself '' .
cg33.31.1	post-adv	We , when you suddenly turned to me , looking up from beneath one of your wrong hats , and with your nervous `` ahem '' ! Said : `` There are things I must tell you about this man you are marrying which he does not know himself '' , had stopped before a shop window to assess its autumnal display .
cg33.32.0	ref	If you had screamed right there in the street where we stood , I could not have felt more fear .
cg33.32.1	pre-adv	I could not have felt more fear , if you had screamed right there in the street where we stood .
cg33.34.0	ref	I fled , however , not from what might have been the natural fear of being unable to disguise from you that the things about my bridegroom -- in the sense you meant the word `` things '' -- which you had been galvanizing yourself to tell me as a painful part of your maternal duty were things which I had already insisted upon finding out for myself -LRB- despite , I may now say , the unspeakable awkwardness of making the discovery on principle , yes , on principle , and in cold blood -RRB- because I was resolved , as a modern woman , not to be a mollycoddle waiting for Life but to seize Life by the throat .
cg33.34.1	post-adj2	I fled , not from what might have been the natural fear of being unable to disguise from you that the things about my bridegroom -- in the sense you meant the word `` things '' -- which you had been galvanizing yourself to tell me as a painful part of your maternal duty were things which I had already insisted upon finding out for myself -LRB- despite , I may now say , the unspeakable awkwardness of making the discovery on principle , yes , on principle , and in cold blood -RRB- , however because I was resolved , as a modern woman , not to be a mollycoddle waiting for Life but to seize Life by the throat .
cg33.38.0	ref	While my memory holds with relentless tenacity , as I can not too often stress , to my wrongs , when it comes to my shames , it gestures and jokes and toys with chronology like a prestidigitator in the hope of distracting me from them .
cg33.38.1	post-adv	While , as I can not too often stress , my memory holds with relentless tenacity to my wrongs , when it comes to my shames , it gestures and jokes and toys with chronology like a prestidigitator in the hope of distracting me from them .
cg33.38.2	pre-adv	When it comes to my shames , it gestures and jokes and toys with chronology like a prestidigitator in the hope of distracting me from them , while my memory holds with relentless tenacity , as I can not too often stress , to my wrongs .
cg33.38.3	pre-adv	While my memory holds with relentless tenacity , as I can not too often stress , to my wrongs it gestures and jokes and toys with chronology like a prestidigitator in the hope of distracting me from them , when it comes to my shames .
cg33.38.4	post-adj2	While my memory holds to my wrongs , as I can not too often stress , with relentless tenacity , when it comes to my shames , it gestures and jokes and toys with chronology like a prestidigitator in the hope of distracting me from them .
cg33.39.0	ref	Just as I was about to enlarge upon my discovery of the underside of the leaf of love , memory , displeased at being asked to yield its unsavory secrets , dashed ahead of me , calling back over its shoulder : `` Skip it .
cg33.39.1	pre-adv	Memory , displeased at being asked to yield its unsavory secrets , dashed ahead of me , just as I was about to enlarge upon my discovery of the underside of the leaf of love , calling back over its shoulder : `` Skip it .
cg33.43.0	ref	If to be innocent is to be helpless , then I had been -- as are we all -- helpless at the start .
cg33.43.1	post-adv	If to be innocent is to be helpless , then I -- as are we all -- had been helpless at the start .
cg33.43.2	pre-adv	Then I had been -- as are we all -- helpless , if to be innocent is to be helpless , at the start .
cg33.44.0	ref	But the time came when I was no longer innocent and therefore no longer helpless .
cg33.44.1	post-adv	When I was no longer innocent and therefore no longer helpless but the time came .
cg33.46.0	ref	However , I confess my hope that I will be innocent again , not with a pristine , accidental innocence , but rather with an innocence achieved by the slow cutting away of the flesh to reach the bone .
cg33.46.1	post-adj2	However , I confess my hope that I will be innocent not with a pristine , accidental innocence , but rather with an innocence achieved by the slow cutting away of the flesh to reach the bone , again .
cg33.48.0	ref	Although it is constantly made to look foolish -LRB- too simple to come in out of the rain , people say , who have found in the innocent an impediment -RRB- , it does not mind looking foolish because it is not concerned with how it looks .
cg33.48.1	post-adv	Although it is constantly made to look foolish -LRB- too simple to come in out of the rain , people say , who have found in the innocent an impediment -RRB- , it because it is not concerned with how it looks does not mind looking foolish .
cg33.48.2	pre-adv	It does not mind looking foolish because it is not concerned with how it looks , although it is constantly made to look foolish -LRB- too simple to come in out of the rain , people say , who have found in the innocent an impediment -RRB- .
cg33.49.0	ref	It assumes that things are as they seem when they seem best , and when they seem worst it overlooks them .
cg33.49.1	post-adv	It assumes that when they seem best things are as they seem , and when they seem worst it overlooks them .
cg33.49.2	pre-adv	It assumes that things are as they seem when they seem best , and it overlooks them , when they seem worst .
cg33.51.0	ref	Instinctively , innocence does unto others as it expects to be done by .
cg33.51.1	post-adv	As it expects to be done by instinctively , innocence does unto others .
cg33.52.0	ref	But when these expectations are once too often ground into the dust , innocence can falter , since its strength is according to the strength of him who possesses it .
cg33.52.1	post-adv	Since its strength is according to the strength of him who possesses it , but when these expectations are once too often ground into the dust , innocence can falter .
cg33.52.2	pre-adv	But innocence can falter , since its strength is according to the strength of him who possesses it , when these expectations are once too often ground into the dust .
cg33.57.0	ref	To you , for instance , the word innocence , in this connotation , probably retained its Biblical , or should I say technical sense , and therefore I suppose I must make myself quite clear by saying that I lost -- or rather handed over -- what you would have considered to be my innocence two weeks before I was legally entitled , and in fact by oath required , to hand it over along with what other goods and bads I had .
cg33.57.1	pre-adj2	For instance , to you , the word innocence , in this connotation , probably retained its Biblical , or should I say technical sense , and therefore I suppose I must make myself quite clear by saying that I lost -- or rather handed over -- what you would have considered to be my innocence two weeks before I was legally entitled , and in fact by oath required , to hand it over along with what other goods and bads I had .
cg33.59.0	ref	I had long since begun to lose my general innocence when I lost my trust in you , but this special innocence I lost before ever I loved , through my discovery that one could tremble with desire and even experience a flaming delight that had nothing , nothing whatever to do with friendship or liking , let alone with love .
cg33.59.1	post-adv	I when I lost my trust in you had long since begun to lose my general innocence , but this special innocence I lost before ever I loved , through my discovery that one could tremble with desire and even experience a flaming delight that had nothing , nothing whatever to do with friendship or liking , let alone with love .
cg33.59.2	post-adv	I had long since begun to lose my general innocence when I lost my trust in you , but , before ever I loved , this special innocence I lost through my discovery that one could tremble with desire and even experience a flaming delight that had nothing , nothing whatever to do with friendship or liking , let alone with love .
cg33.64.0	ref	Moreover , because of the particular blot on your family escutcheon through what may only have been one unbridled moment on your grandmother 's part , and because you had the lean-to kitchen and trundle bed of your childhood to outgrow , what you obviously most desired with both your conscious and unconscious person , what you bent your whole will , sensibility , and intelligence upon , was to be a lady .
cg33.64.1	pre-adv	Moreover what you obviously most desired with both your conscious and unconscious person , what you bent your whole will , sensibility , and intelligence upon , was to be a lady , because of the particular blot on your family escutcheon through what may only have been one unbridled moment on your grandmother 's part , and because you had the lean-to kitchen and trundle bed of your childhood to outgrow .
cg33.67.0	ref	A lady , you made clear to me both by precept and example , never raised her voice or slumped in her chair , never failed in social tact -LRB- in heaven , for instance , would not mention St. John the Baptist 's head -RRB- , never pouted or withdrew or scandalized in company , never reminded others of her physical presence by unseemly sound or gesture , never indulged in public scenes or private confidences , never spoke of money save in terms of alleviating suffering , never gossiped or maligned , never stressed but always minimized the hopelessness of anything from sin to death itself .
cg33.67.1	post-adj2	A lady , you made clear both by precept and example to me , never raised her voice or slumped in her chair , never failed in social tact -LRB- in heaven , for instance , would not mention St. John the Baptist 's head -RRB- , never pouted or withdrew or scandalized in company , never reminded others of her physical presence by unseemly sound or gesture , never indulged in public scenes or private confidences , never spoke of money save in terms of alleviating suffering , never gossiped or maligned , never stressed but always minimized the hopelessness of anything from sin to death itself .
cg34.5.0	ref	After he had finished the first two volumes of his Lincoln , Sandburg went to work assembling a book of songs out of hobo and childhood days and from the memory of songs others had taught him .
cg34.5.1	pre-adv	Sandburg went to work assembling a book of songs out of hobo and childhood days and from the memory of songs others had taught him , after he had finished the first two volumes of his Lincoln .
cg34.6.0	ref	He rummaged , found composers and arrangers , collaborated on the main design and outline of harmonization with musicians , ballad singers , and musicologists .
cg34.6.1	post-adj2	He rummaged , found composers and arrangers , collaborated with musicians , ballad singers , and musicologists on the main design and outline of harmonization .
cg34.7.0	ref	The result was a collection of 280 songs , ballads , ditties , brought together from all regions of America , more than one hundred never before published : The American Songbag .
cg34.7.1	post-adj2	The result was a collection of 280 songs , ballads , ditties , brought from all regions of America together , more than one hundred never before published : The American Songbag .
cg34.10.0	ref	As Sandburg said at the time : `` It is as ancient as the medieval European ballads brought to the Appalachian Mountains , it is as modern as skyscrapers , the Volstead Act , and the latest oil well gusher '' .
cg34.10.1	pre-adv	`` It is as ancient as the medieval European ballads brought to the Appalachian Mountains as Sandburg said at the time , it is as modern as skyscrapers , the Volstead Act , and the latest oil well gusher '' .
cg34.14.0	ref	Even when he is called upon for impromptu remarks , he has notes written on the back of handy envelopes .
cg34.14.1	pre-adv	He has notes written on the back of handy envelopes , even when he is called upon for impromptu remarks .
cg34.14.2	post-adj2	Even when he is called for impromptu remarks upon , he has notes written on the back of handy envelopes .
cg34.26.0	ref	To play the guitar as he aspires will devour his three-fold energy as a historian , a poet and a singer .
cg34.26.1	post-adv	As he aspires to play the guitar will devour his three-fold energy as a historian , a poet and a singer .
cg34.33.0	ref	Carl says it is the greatest poem ever written to the guitar because he has never heard of any other poem to that subtle instrument .
cg34.33.1	post-adv	Because he has never heard of any other poem to that subtle instrument Carl says it is the greatest poem ever written to the guitar .
cg34.40.0	ref	`` Mr. Miller was in the shop '' , the Herald Tribune story related , `` but was reluctant to have anybody 's picture taken inside , because his business was too ' confidential ' for pictures .
cg34.40.1	post-adv	`` Mr. Miller , because his business was too ' confidential ' for pictures , was in the shop '' , the Herald Tribune story related , `` but was reluctant to have anybody 's picture taken inside .
cg34.46.0	ref	While the picture was taken , Mr. Miller 's disposition to be generous to Mr. Sandburg increased to the point where he advised ' I wo n't even charge you the one dollar rental fee ' '' .
cg34.46.1	dat-np-np	While the picture was taken , Mr. Miller 's disposition to be generous to Mr. Sandburg increased to the point where he advised ' I wo n't even charge the one dollar rental fee to you ' '' .
cg34.46.2	pre-adv	Mr. Miller 's disposition to be generous to Mr. Sandburg increased to the point where he advised ' I wo n't even charge you the one dollar rental fee ' , while the picture was taken '' .
cg34.48.0	ref	When someone in the audience rose and asked how does it feel to be a celebrity , Carl said , `` A celebrity is a fellow who eats celery with celerity '' .
cg34.48.1	pre-adv	Carl said , `` A celebrity is a fellow who eats celery with celerity '' , when someone in the audience rose and asked how does it feel to be a celebrity .
cg34.50.0	ref	Lloyd Lewis wrote that when he first knew Carl in 1916 , Sandburg was making $ 27.50 a week writing features for the Day Book and eating sparse luncheons in one-arm restaurants .
cg34.50.1	pre-adv	Lloyd Lewis wrote that Sandburg was making $ 27.50 a week writing features for the Day Book and eating sparse luncheons in one-arm restaurants , when he first knew Carl in 1916 .
cg34.51.0	ref	He walked home at night for two miles beyond the end of a suburban trolley .
cg34.51.1	post-adj3	He walked at night home for two miles beyond the end of a suburban trolley .
cg34.51.2	post-adj3	He walked for two miles beyond the end of a suburban trolley at night home .
cg34.51.3	post-adj3	He walked home for two miles beyond the end of a suburban trolley at night .
cg34.51.4	post-adj3	He walked for two miles beyond the end of a suburban trolley home at night .
cg34.51.5	post-adj3	He walked at night for two miles beyond the end of a suburban trolley home .
cg34.52.0	ref	When fame came it changed Sandburg only slightly .
cg34.52.1	pre-adv	It changed Sandburg only slightly when fame came .
cg34.53.0	ref	Lewis remembered another newspaperman asking , `` Carl , have your ideas changed any since you got all these comforts '' ?
cg34.53.1	post-adv	Lewis remembered another newspaperman asking , `` Carl , since you got all these comforts have your ideas changed any '' ?
cg34.55.0	ref	That was all he said , Lewis reports .
cg34.55.1	quote	That was all he said , reports Lewis .
cg34.63.0	ref	The impression you get from Carl Sandburg 's home is one of laughter and happiness ; and the laughter and the happiness are even more pronounced when no company is present .
cg34.63.1	post-adv	The impression you get from Carl Sandburg 's home is one of laughter and happiness ; and the laughter and the happiness when no company is present are even more pronounced .
cg34.64.0	ref	Carl has been married to Paula for fifty-three years , and he has not made a single major decision without careful consideration and thorough discussion with his wife .
cg34.64.1	post-adj2	Carl has been married for fifty-three years to Paula , and he has not made a single major decision without careful consideration and thorough discussion with his wife .
cg34.67.0	ref	Mrs. Sandburg received a Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Chicago and she was busy writing and teaching when she met Sandburg .
cg34.67.1	post-adv	Mrs. Sandburg received a Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Chicago and when she met Sandburg she was busy writing and teaching .
cg34.70.0	ref	Even now I will not intrude upon her except to state a few bare facts .
cg34.70.1	post-adj2	Even now I will not intrude except to state a few bare facts upon her .
cg34.76.0	ref	As the Sandburg goat herd increased , she also designed the barn alterations to accommodate them .
cg34.76.1	pre-adv	She also designed the barn alterations to accommodate them , as the Sandburg goat herd increased .
cg34.77.0	ref	When erosion threatened the foundation of their home in Harbert , Paula Sandburg planted grapevines and arranged the snow fences which helped hold the sands away .
cg34.77.1	pre-adv	Paula Sandburg planted grapevines and arranged the snow fences which helped hold the sands away , when erosion threatened the foundation of their home in Harbert .
cg34.83.0	ref	`` My mother read a book right after I was born and there was a Lilian in the book she loved and I became Lilian -- and eventually I became Paula '' .
cg34.83.1	post-adv	`` Right after I was born my mother read a book and there was a Lilian in the book she loved and I became Lilian -- and eventually I became Paula '' .
cg34.91.0	ref	`` This is no place for a young girl '' , he said .
cg34.91.1	quote	`` This is no place for a young girl '' , said he .
cg34.92.0	ref	The parents compromised , however , on a convent school and Paula went to Ursuline Academy in London , Ontario .
cg34.92.1	post-adj2	The parents compromised , on a convent school , however and Paula went to Ursuline Academy in London , Ontario .
cg34.94.0	ref	She knelt out of reverence for having read the Meditations of St. Augustine .
cg34.94.1	post-adj2	She knelt for having read the Meditations of St. Augustine out of reverence .
cg34.98.0	ref	If there was ever a thought in her mind she might devote her life to religion , it was now dispelled .
cg34.98.1	pre-adv	It was now dispelled , if there was ever a thought in her mind she might devote her life to religion .
cg34.104.0	ref	She once gave a German recitation before a convention of German-language teachers in Milwaukee .
cg34.104.1	post-adj2	She once gave a German recitation in Milwaukee before a convention of German-language teachers .
cg34.105.0	ref	Carl and Paula met in Milwaukee in 1907 during Paula 's Christmas holiday visit to her parents .
cg34.105.1	post-adj3	Carl and Paula met in 1907 in Milwaukee during Paula 's Christmas holiday visit to her parents .
cg34.105.2	post-adj3	Carl and Paula met during Paula 's Christmas holiday visit to her parents in 1907 in Milwaukee .
cg34.105.3	post-adj3	Carl and Paula met in Milwaukee during Paula 's Christmas holiday visit to her parents in 1907 .
cg34.105.4	post-adj3	Carl and Paula met during Paula 's Christmas holiday visit to her parents in Milwaukee in 1907 .
cg34.105.5	post-adj3	Carl and Paula met in 1907 during Paula 's Christmas holiday visit to her parents in Milwaukee .
cg34.110.0	ref	She left the next day for her teaching job at Princeton , Illinois .
cg34.110.1	post-adj2	She left for her teaching job at Princeton , Illinois the next day .
cg34.111.0	ref	-LRB- After graduation from the University of Chicago , Paula taught for two years in the normal school at Valley City , North Dakota , then two years at Princeton -LRB- Illinois -RRB- Township High School . -RRB-
cg34.111.1	post-adj2	-LRB- After graduation from the University of Chicago , Paula taught in the normal school at Valley City , North Dakota , for two years then two years at Princeton -LRB- Illinois -RRB- Township High School . -RRB-
cg34.114.0	ref	Paula says that even though Carl 's letters usually began , `` Dear Miss Steichen '' , there was an understanding from the beginning that they would become husband and wife .
cg34.114.1	pre-adv	Paula says that there was an understanding from the beginning that they would become husband and wife , even though Carl 's letters usually began , `` Dear Miss Steichen '' .
cg34.115.0	ref	Paula generously lent me one of Carl 's love letters , dated February 21 , 1908 , Hotel Athearn , Oshkosh , Wisconsin : `` Dear Miss Steichen : It is a very good letter you send me -- softens the intensity of this guerilla warfare I am carrying on up here .
cg34.115.1	dat-np-np	Paula generously lent one of Carl 's love letters , dated February 21 , 1908 , Hotel Athearn , Oshkosh , Wisconsin : `` Dear Miss Steichen : It is a very good letter you send me -- softens the intensity of this guerilla warfare I am carrying on up here to me .
cg35.3.0	ref	Now this concern for the freedom of other peoples is the intellectual and spiritual cement which has allied us with more than forty other nations in a common defense effort .
cg35.3.1	post-adj2	Now this concern for the freedom of other peoples is the intellectual and spiritual cement which has allied us in a common defense effort with more than forty other nations .
cg35.18.0	ref	To us and to every nation of the Free World , rich or poor , these qualities are necessary today as never before if we are to march together to greater security , prosperity and peace .
cg35.18.1	post-adv	If we are to march together to greater security , prosperity and peace to us and to every nation of the Free World , rich or poor , these qualities are necessary today as never before .
cg35.18.2	post-adj2	To us and to every nation of the Free World , rich or poor , these qualities are necessary as never before today if we are to march together to greater security , prosperity and peace .
cg35.19.0	ref	I believe that the industrial countries are ready to participate actively in supplementing the efforts of the developing nations to achieve progress .
cg35.19.1	post-adj2	I believe that the industrial countries are ready to participate in supplementing the efforts of the developing nations to achieve progress actively .
cg35.27.0	ref	New Nations , and others struggling with the problems of development , will progress only -- regardless of any outside help -- if they demonstrate faith in their own destiny and use their own resources to fulfill it .
cg35.27.1	post-adv	New Nations , and others struggling with the problems of development -- if they demonstrate faith in their own destiny and use their own resources to fulfill it -- will progress only -- regardless of any outside help .
cg35.29.0	ref	But , just as we drew on Europe for assistance in our earlier years , so now do these new and emerging nations that do have this faith and determination deserve help .
cg35.29.1	post-adj2	But , just as we drew for assistance in our earlier years on Europe , so now do these new and emerging nations that do have this faith and determination deserve help .
cg35.31.0	ref	Here , in two nations alone , are almost five hundred million people , all working , and working hard , to raise their standards , and in doing so , to make of themselves a strong bulwark against the spread of an ideology that would destroy liberty .
cg35.31.1	pre-adj2	In two nations alone , here , are almost five hundred million people , all working , and working hard , to raise their standards , and in doing so , to make of themselves a strong bulwark against the spread of an ideology that would destroy liberty .
cg35.43.0	ref	If we grasp this opportunity to build an age of productive partnership between the less fortunate nations and those that have already achieved a high state of economic advancement , we will make brighter the outlook for a world order based upon security and freedom .
cg35.43.1	pre-adv	We will make brighter the outlook for a world order based upon security and freedom , if we grasp this opportunity to build an age of productive partnership between the less fortunate nations and those that have already achieved a high state of economic advancement .
cg35.48.0	ref	Until tangible and mutually enforceable arms reduction measures are worked out we will not weaken the means of defending our institutions .
cg35.48.1	pre-adv	We will not weaken the means of defending our institutions until tangible and mutually enforceable arms reduction measures are worked out .
cg35.50.0	ref	It is my studied conviction that no nation will ever risk general war against us unless we should become so foolish as to neglect the defense forces we now so powerfully support .
cg35.50.1	post-adv	It is my studied conviction that no nation unless we should become so foolish as to neglect the defense forces we now so powerfully support will ever risk general war against us .
cg35.51.0	ref	It is world-wide knowledge that any power which might be tempted today to attack the United States by surprise , even though we might sustain great losses , would itself promptly suffer a terrible destruction .
cg35.51.1	pre-adv	It is world-wide knowledge that any power which might be tempted today to attack the United States by surprise would itself promptly suffer a terrible destruction , even though we might sustain great losses .
cg35.54.0	ref	In fourteen recent test launchings , at ranges of five thousand miles , Atlas has been striking on an average within two miles of the target .
cg35.54.1	pre-adj2	At ranges of five thousand miles , in fourteen recent test launchings , Atlas has been striking on an average within two miles of the target .
cg35.54.2	post-adj2	In fourteen recent test launchings , at ranges of five thousand miles , Atlas has been striking within two miles of the target on an average .
cg35.59.0	ref	This year , moreover , growing numbers of nuclear powered submarines will enter our active forces , some to be armed with Polaris missiles .
cg35.59.1	pre-adj2	Moreover , this year , growing numbers of nuclear powered submarines will enter our active forces , some to be armed with Polaris missiles .
cg35.63.0	ref	It is scheduled to go forward at a rate which will steadily add to our strength .
cg35.63.1	post-adj2	It is scheduled to go at a rate which will steadily add to our strength forward .
cg35.64.0	ref	The deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores , on land and sea , is persuasive demonstration of our determination to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our allies for collective security .
cg35.64.1	post-adj3	The deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores , on land and sea , is persuasive demonstration of our determination to stand with our allies shoulder-to-shoulder for collective security .
cg35.64.2	post-adj3	The deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores , on land and sea , is persuasive demonstration of our determination to stand for collective security with our allies shoulder-to-shoulder .
cg35.64.3	post-adj3	The deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores , on land and sea , is persuasive demonstration of our determination to stand shoulder-to-shoulder for collective security with our allies .
cg35.64.4	post-adj3	The deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores , on land and sea , is persuasive demonstration of our determination to stand for collective security shoulder-to-shoulder with our allies .
cg35.64.5	post-adj3	The deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores , on land and sea , is persuasive demonstration of our determination to stand with our allies for collective security shoulder-to-shoulder .
cg35.70.0	ref	Second , our military missile program , going forward so successfully , does not suffer from our present lack of very large rocket engines , which are necessary in distant space exploration .
cg35.70.1	post-adj2	Second , our military missile program , going so successfully forward , does not suffer from our present lack of very large rocket engines , which are necessary in distant space exploration .
cg35.72.0	ref	Third , the United States is pressing forward in the development of large rocket engines to place vehicles of many tons into space for exploration purposes .
cg35.72.1	post-adj2	Third , the United States is pressing in the development of large rocket engines forward to place vehicles of many tons into space for exploration purposes .
cg35.77.0	ref	Suggested improvements will be submitted to the Congress shortly .
cg35.77.1	post-adj2	Suggested improvements will be submitted shortly to the Congress .
cg35.79.0	ref	The steady purpose of our society is to assure justice , before God , for every individual .
cg35.79.1	post-adj2	The steady purpose of our society is to assure justice , for every individual , before God .
cg35.81.0	ref	A year ago , when I met with you , the nation was emerging from an economic downturn , even though the signs of resurgent prosperity were not then sufficiently convincing to the doubtful .
cg35.81.1	post-adv	A year ago , when I met with you , the nation , even though the signs of resurgent prosperity were not then sufficiently convincing to the doubtful , was emerging from an economic downturn .
cg35.81.2	pre-adv	A year ago the nation was emerging from an economic downturn , even though the signs of resurgent prosperity were not then sufficiently convincing to the doubtful , when I met with you .
cg36.14.0	ref	He knew it would be implied that it was done in this way at his insistence .
cg36.14.1	post-adj2	He knew it would be implied that it was done at his insistence in this way .
cg36.21.0	ref	The contents of this 195-page document would become known to many before it would become known to the man it was written about .
cg36.21.1	post-adv	The contents of this 195-page document would before it would become known to the man it was written about become known to many .
cg36.22.0	ref	`` Until this Hungarian Committee matter came up , Bang-Jensen was a fine and devoted individual .
cg36.22.1	pre-adv	Bang-Jensen was a fine and devoted individual `` until this Hungarian Committee matter came up .
cg36.24.0	ref	Ernest A. Gross leaned back in his chair and told Peter Marshall how Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold had , on December 4 , 1957 , called him in as a private lawyer to review Bang-Jensen 's conduct `` relating to his association with the Special Committee on the problem of Hungary '' .
cg36.24.1	post-adj2	Ernest A. Gross leaned in his chair back and told Peter Marshall how Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold had , on December 4 , 1957 , called him in as a private lawyer to review Bang-Jensen 's conduct `` relating to his association with the Special Committee on the problem of Hungary '' .
cg36.25.0	ref	The result was the `` Gross Report '' , prepared by Gross , as chairman , with the assistance of two U.N. Under Secretaries , Constantin Stavropoulos and Philippe De Seynes .
cg36.25.1	post-adj3	The result was the `` Gross Report '' , prepared as chairman , by Gross , with the assistance of two U.N. Under Secretaries , Constantin Stavropoulos and Philippe De Seynes .
cg36.25.2	post-adj3	The result was the `` Gross Report '' , prepared with the assistance of two U.N. Under Secretaries , Constantin Stavropoulos and Philippe De Seynes , as chairman , by Gross .
cg36.25.3	post-adj3	The result was the `` Gross Report '' , prepared by Gross , with the assistance of two U.N. Under Secretaries , Constantin Stavropoulos and Philippe De Seynes , as chairman .
cg36.25.4	post-adj3	The result was the `` Gross Report '' , prepared , with the assistance of two U.N. Under Secretaries , Constantin Stavropoulos and Philippe De Seynes , by Gross , as chairman .
cg36.25.5	post-adj3	The result was the `` Gross Report '' , prepared as chairman , with the assistance of two U.N. Under Secretaries , Constantin Stavropoulos and Philippe De Seynes , by Gross .
cg36.30.0	ref	`` You know '' , the lawyer said , `` it 's difficult to talk like this about a man who ca n't answer back '' .
cg36.30.1	post-adj2	`` You know '' , the lawyer said , `` it 's difficult to talk about a man who ca n't answer back like this '' .
cg36.43.0	ref	`` I think our report sums up our finding '' , Gross answered .
cg36.43.1	quote	`` I think our report sums up our finding '' , answered Gross .
cg36.44.0	ref	`` Do n't forget , here was a man who had been accusing his colleagues for almost a year of willfully attempting to present an incorrect report .
cg36.44.1	post-adj2	`` Do n't forget , here was a man who had been accusing his colleagues of willfully attempting to present an incorrect report for almost a year .
cg36.52.0	ref	`` For instance , regarding the fact that the Gross Committee issued two interim announcements to the press during its investigation .
cg36.52.1	post-adj2	`` For instance , regarding the fact that the Gross Committee issued two interim announcements during its investigation to the press .
cg36.64.0	ref	`` It was n't necessarily all here in New York .
cg36.64.1	post-adj2	`` It was n't here in New York all necessarily .
cg36.75.0	ref	`` The entire object of the press conference was to clarify the problem of the list , since many in the press were querying the U.N. about it .
cg36.75.1	post-adv	Since many in the press were querying the U.N. about it , `` the entire object of the press conference was to clarify the problem of the list .
cg36.82.0	ref	We attempted to conclude this , and did so by having the papers burned .
cg36.82.1	post-adj2	We attempted to conclude this , and did by having the papers burned so .
cg36.85.0	ref	Hammarskjold believes the U.N. is an organization that settles matters in a procedural way . '' Peter Marshall reflected .
cg36.85.1	quote	Hammarskjold believes the U.N. is an organization that settles matters in a procedural way . '' reflected Peter Marshall .
cg36.86.0	ref	If Hammarskjold had not wanted the list disposed of in this manner , and if Bang-Jensen had not wanted it -- who had ordered it ?
cg36.86.1	post-adj2	If Hammarskjold had not wanted the list disposed in this manner of , and if Bang-Jensen had not wanted it -- who had ordered it ?
cg36.87.0	ref	`` Mr. Gross , concerning the formation of your Committee , there 's the fact that you have been a legal adviser to the U.N. in the past ; as I understand it , Mr. Hammarskjold wanted outside advice .
cg36.87.1	pre-adv	`` Mr. Gross , concerning the formation of your Committee , there 's the fact that you have been a legal adviser to the U.N. in the past ; Mr. Hammarskjold wanted outside advice , as I understand it .
cg36.89.0	ref	`` I 've served as a counsel for the U.N. for some years , specializing particularly in real estate matters or other problems that the regular U.N. legal staff might not be equipped to handle .
cg36.89.1	post-adj2	`` I 've served for some years as a counsel for the U.N. , specializing particularly in real estate matters or other problems that the regular U.N. legal staff might not be equipped to handle .
cg36.93.0	ref	`` Why , Mick Shann went over and over the report with Alsing Andersen , trying to check them out .
cg36.93.1	post-adj2	`` Why , Mick Shann went with Alsing Andersen over and over the report , trying to check them out .
cg36.100.0	ref	He probably did n't mean to write it this way , or maybe he did .
cg36.100.1	dat-np-np	He probably did n't mean to write this way to it , or maybe he did .
cg36.101.0	ref	There was n't any ' violent argument ' between Bang-Jensen and Shann , as the Tribune puts it .
cg36.101.1	post-adv	As the Tribune puts it , there was n't any ' violent argument ' between Bang-Jensen and Shann .
cg36.107.0	ref	So once again Shann had to argue with him about this .
cg36.107.1	post-adj2	So once again Shann had to argue about this with him .
cg36.116.0	ref	When I speak of how Shann felt , I know well .
cg36.116.1	pre-adv	I know well , when I speak of how Shann felt .
cg36.125.0	ref	It said in part : `` the matters to be considered are obviously of a grave character , and I therefore respectfully request that the hearing be postponed for two weeks in order that I might make adequate preparation '' .
cg36.125.1	post-adv	It said in part : `` the matters to be considered are obviously of a grave character , and I therefore respectfully request that the hearing in order that I might make adequate preparation be postponed for two weeks '' .
cg36.130.0	ref	It sounded like a fair enough invitation , Peter Marshall reflected , and Bang-Jensen must have thought so too , because on the thirteenth , he met the group of three on the thirty-sixth floor of the U.N. .
cg36.130.1	post-adv	It sounded like a fair enough invitation , Peter Marshall reflected , and Bang-Jensen must , because on the thirteenth , he met the group of three on the thirty-sixth floor of the U.N. , have thought so too .
cg36.131.0	ref	There , Ernest Gross further assured him : `` We were requested by the Secretary General , as I understand it , to discuss with you such matters as appear to us to be relevant , and we are not of course either a formal group or a committee in the sense of being guided by any rules or regulations of the Secretariat .
cg36.131.1	post-adv	There , Ernest Gross further assured him : `` We , as I understand it , were requested by the Secretary General to discuss with you such matters as appear to us to be relevant , and we are not of course either a formal group or a committee in the sense of being guided by any rules or regulations of the Secretariat .
cg36.135.0	ref	J.A.C. Robertson , after serving Gross one week , left for England .
cg36.135.1	dat-np-np	J.A.C. Robertson , after serving one week to Gross , left for England .
ck01.2.0	ref	Scotty did not go back to school .
ck01.2.1	post-adj2	Scotty did not go to school back .
ck01.3.0	ref	His parents talked seriously and lengthily to their own doctor and to a specialist at the University Hospital -- Mr. McKinley was entitled to a discount for members of his family -- and it was decided it would be best for him to take the remainder of the term off , spend a lot of time in bed and , for the rest , do pretty much as he chose -- provided , of course , he chose to do nothing too exciting or too debilitating .
ck01.3.1	post-adv	His parents talked seriously and lengthily to their own doctor and to a specialist at the University Hospital -- Mr. McKinley was entitled to a discount for members of his family -- and it was decided it would be best for him to -- as he chose -- take the remainder of the term off , spend a lot of time in bed and , for the rest , do pretty much provided , of course , he chose to do nothing too exciting or too debilitating .
ck01.3.2	post-adj2	His parents talked to their own doctor and to a specialist at the University Hospital seriously and lengthily -- Mr. McKinley was entitled to a discount for members of his family -- and it was decided it would be best for him to take the remainder of the term off , spend a lot of time in bed and , for the rest , do pretty much as he chose -- provided , of course , he chose to do nothing too exciting or too debilitating .
ck01.4.0	ref	His teacher and his school principal were conferred with and everyone agreed that , if he kept up with a certain amount of work at home , there was little danger of his losing a term .
ck01.4.1	pre-adv	His teacher and his school principal were conferred with and everyone agreed that , there was little danger of his losing a term , if he kept up with a certain amount of work at home .
ck01.6.0	ref	He was discharged from the hospital after a two-day checkup and he and his parents had what Mr. McKinley described as a `` celebration lunch '' at the cafeteria on the campus .
ck01.6.1	post-adj2	He was discharged after a two-day checkup from the hospital and he and his parents had what Mr. McKinley described as a `` celebration lunch '' at the cafeteria on the campus .
ck01.7.0	ref	Rachel wore a smart hat and , because she had been warned recently about smoking , puffed at her cigarettes through a long ivory holder stained with lipstick .
ck01.7.1	post-adv	Rachel , because she had been warned recently about smoking , wore a smart hat and , puffed at her cigarettes through a long ivory holder stained with lipstick .
ck01.7.2	post-adj2	Rachel wore a smart hat and , because she had been warned about smoking recently , puffed at her cigarettes through a long ivory holder stained with lipstick .
ck01.11.0	ref	They ate the cafeteria food with its orange sauces and Scotty gazed without interest at his food , the teachers , the heroic baronial windows , and the bright ranks of college banners .
ck01.11.1	post-adj2	They ate the cafeteria food with its orange sauces and Scotty gazed at his food , the teachers , the heroic baronial windows , and the bright ranks of college banners without interest .
ck01.20.0	ref	`` He 's all right , Craig '' , Rachel said .
ck01.20.1	quote	`` He 's all right , Craig '' , said rachel .
ck01.21.0	ref	`` I can fix him something later in the afternoon when we get home '' .
ck01.21.1	post-adv	`` I when we get home can fix him something later in the afternoon '' .
ck01.24.0	ref	He breathed now with his mouth open , showing a whitely curving section of lower teeth ; he kept his eyes , with their puffed blurred lids , always lowered , though not , apparently , focusing .
ck01.24.1	post-adj2	He breathed with his mouth open now , showing a whitely curving section of lower teeth ; he kept his eyes , with their puffed blurred lids , always lowered , though not , apparently , focusing .
ck01.35.0	ref	The doctors had suggested Scotty remain most of every afternoon in bed until he was stronger .
ck01.35.1	post-adv	The doctors had suggested until he was stronger Scotty remain most of every afternoon in bed .
ck01.35.2	post-adj2	The doctors had suggested Scotty remain in bed most of every afternoon until he was stronger .
ck01.36.0	ref	Since Mr. McKinley had to give a lecture , Rachel and Scotty drove home alone in the Plymouth .
ck01.36.1	pre-adv	Rachel and Scotty drove home alone in the Plymouth , since Mr. McKinley had to give a lecture .
ck01.36.2	post-adj2	Since Mr. McKinley had to give a lecture , Rachel and Scotty drove in the Plymouth alone home .
ck01.46.0	ref	The days seemed short , perhaps because his routine was , each day , almost the same .
ck01.46.1	post-adv	Perhaps because his routine was , each day , almost the same , the days seemed short .
ck01.54.0	ref	Virginia and Rachel talked to each other quietly now , as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere .
ck01.54.1	post-adv	As allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere , Virginia and Rachel talked to each other quietly now .
ck01.54.2	post-adj3	Virginia and Rachel talked quietly to each other now , as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere .
ck01.54.3	post-adj3	Virginia and Rachel talked now quietly to each other , as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere .
ck01.54.4	post-adj3	Virginia and Rachel talked to each other now quietly , as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere .
ck01.54.5	post-adj3	Virginia and Rachel talked , now , to each other quietly as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere .
ck01.54.6	post-adj3	Virginia and Rachel talked quietly now to each other , as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere .
ck01.58.0	ref	He ate what he felt like , slept as much or as little as he pleased , and moved about the draughty rooms of the house , when he was not in bed , with slow , dubious steps , like an elderly tourist in a cathedral .
ck01.58.1	post-adv	He , when he was not in bed , ate what he felt like , slept as much or as little as he pleased , and moved about the draughty rooms of the house with slow , dubious steps , like an elderly tourist in a cathedral .
ck01.62.0	ref	When he was asked a question or addressed in such a way that some response was inescapable , he would answer ; if , as often happened , he had to repeat because he had spoken too softly , he would repeat his words in the same way , without emphasis or impatience , only a little louder .
ck01.62.1	post-adv	When he was asked a question or addressed in such a way that some response was inescapable , he would answer ; if , because he had spoken too softly as often happened , he had to repeat , he would repeat his words in the same way , without emphasis or impatience , only a little louder .
ck01.62.2	pre-adv	He would answer , when he was asked a question or addressed in such a way that some response was inescapable ; if , as often happened , he had to repeat because he had spoken too softly , he would repeat his words in the same way , without emphasis or impatience , only a little louder .
ck01.62.3	pre-adv	When he was asked a question or addressed in such a way that some response was inescapable , he would answer ; he would repeat his words in the same way , without emphasis or impatience , only a little louder , if , as often happened , he had to repeat because he had spoken too softly .
ck01.62.4	pre-adv	When he was asked a question or addressed in such a way that some response was inescapable , he would answer ; if , he had to repeat because he had spoken too softly , as often happened , he would repeat his words in the same way , without emphasis or impatience , only a little louder .
ck01.72.0	ref	He thought about it briefly , then deliberately turned the talk to something else .
ck01.72.1	post-adj2	He thought briefly about it , then deliberately turned the talk to something else .
ck01.73.0	ref	Once , sitting at the front window in his parents ' room , he saw Kate come out of her house .
ck01.73.1	post-adj2	Once , sitting in his parents ' room at the front window , he saw Kate come out of her house .
ck01.81.0	ref	The doctor , since Scotty was no longer allowed to make his regular trips into town to see him , came often and informally to the house .
ck01.81.1	pre-adv	The doctor came often and informally to the house , since Scotty was no longer allowed to make his regular trips into town to see him .
ck01.83.0	ref	Scotty did not mind the doctor 's unsmiling teasing as he used to .
ck01.83.1	post-adv	Scotty as he used to did not mind the doctor 's unsmiling teasing .
ck01.86.0	ref	`` I do n't go to school any more '' .
ck01.86.1	post-adj2	`` I do n't go any more to school '' .
ck01.92.0	ref	He turned unsmilingly to Rachel .
ck01.92.1	post-adj2	He turned to Rachel unsmilingly .
ck01.99.0	ref	`` I 'll drop by again in a few days '' .
ck01.99.1	post-adj3	`` I 'll drop again by in a few days '' .
ck01.99.2	post-adj3	`` I 'll drop in a few days again by '' .
ck01.99.3	post-adj3	`` I 'll drop by in a few days again '' .
ck01.99.4	post-adj3	`` I 'll drop in a few days by again '' .
ck01.99.5	post-adj3	`` I 'll drop again in a few days by '' .
ck01.100.0	ref	Rachel stayed on after the doctor had gone .
ck01.100.1	post-adv	After the doctor had gone rachel stayed on .
ck01.109.0	ref	He felt her irritability did not concern him , yet he knew he would not care even if it did .
ck01.109.1	post-adv	He felt her irritability did not concern him , yet he knew he even if it did would not care .
ck01.112.0	ref	You could win a popularity contest at that school without any trouble .
ck01.112.1	post-adj2	You could win a popularity contest without any trouble at that school .
ck01.114.0	ref	She wants to pay you a visit .
ck01.114.1	dat-np-np	She wants to pay a visit to you .
ck01.118.0	ref	Rachel came close to the bed , bent as if she would kiss him , then moved away .
ck01.118.1	post-adv	Rachel as if she would kiss him came close to the bed , bent , then moved away .
ck01.123.0	ref	She turned to him again .
ck01.123.1	post-adj2	She turned again to him .
ck01.134.0	ref	We 'll wait till you 're stronger and then talk about it '' .
ck01.134.1	post-adv	We 'll till you 're stronger wait and then talk about it '' .
ck01.135.0	ref	She put the slipper neatly by its mate at the foot of the bed .
ck01.135.1	post-adj2	She put the slipper at the foot of the bed by its mate neatly .
ck01.137.0	ref	This time Rachel kissed him lightly on the forehead .
ck01.137.1	post-adj2	This time Rachel kissed him on the forehead lightly .
ck01.150.0	ref	After a pause , during which he studied Scotty 's face as if Scotty were not there and could not study him too , Mr. McKinley would ask the same questions he had asked downstairs .
ck01.150.1	post-adv	After a pause , during which as if Scotty were not there and could not study him too he studied Scotty 's face , Mr. McKinley would ask the same questions he had asked downstairs .
ck01.152.0	ref	`` I 'm eating more '' , he would say .
ck01.152.1	quote	`` I 'm eating more '' , would say he .
ck01.158.0	ref	He looked at the lined face with vague interest ; he felt he was noting it , as if it were something he might think about when he grew stronger .
ck01.158.1	post-adv	He looked at the lined face with vague interest ; he felt he , as if it were something he might think about when he grew stronger , was noting it .
ck01.158.2	post-adv	He looked at the lined face with vague interest ; he felt he was noting it , as if it were something he when he grew stronger might think about .
ck01.158.3	post-adj2	He looked with vague interest at the lined face ; he felt he was noting it , as if it were something he might think about when he grew stronger .
ck02.1.0	ref	Where their sharp edges seemed restless as sea waves thrusting themselves upward in angry motion , Papa-san sat glacier-like , his smooth solidity , his very immobility defying all the turmoil about him .
ck02.1.1	post-adj2	Where their sharp edges seemed restless as sea waves thrusting themselves in angry motion upward , Papa-san sat glacier-like , his smooth solidity , his very immobility defying all the turmoil about him .
ck02.4.0	ref	Gouge , burn , blast , insult it as they would , could anyone really take Papa-san ?
ck02.4.1	post-adv	As they would gouge , burn , blast , insult it , could anyone really take Papa-san ?
ck02.5.0	ref	Between the ponderous hulk and himself , in the valley over which Papa-san reigned , men had hidden high explosives , booby traps , and mines .
ck02.5.1	pre-adj2	In the valley over which Papa-san reigned , between the ponderous hulk and himself , men had hidden high explosives , booby traps , and mines .
ck02.8.0	ref	At the slope 's base coils of concertina stretched out of eye range like a wild tangle of children 's hoops , stopped simultaneously , weirdly poised as if awaiting the magic of the child 's touch to start them all rolling again .
ck02.8.1	post-adv	At the slope 's base coils of concertina stretched out of eye range like a wild tangle of children 's hoops , as if awaiting the magic of the child 's touch to start them all rolling again stopped simultaneously , weirdly poised .
ck02.8.2	post-adj2	At the slope 's base coils of concertina stretched like a wild tangle of children 's hoops , stopped simultaneously , weirdly poised as if awaiting the magic of the child 's touch to start them all rolling again out of eye range .
ck02.11.0	ref	Who would clean up the mess when the war was over ?
ck02.11.1	post-adv	Who when the war was over would clean up the mess ?
ck02.14.0	ref	If he were to go with White , he would be out there two days , not just listening in the dark at some point between here and Papa-san , but moving ever deeper into enemy land -- behind Papa-san -- itself .
ck02.14.1	pre-adv	He would be out there two days , not just listening in the dark at some point between here and Papa-san , but moving ever deeper into enemy land -- behind Papa-san -- itself , if he were to go with White .
ck02.19.0	ref	It could take place tomorrow night , or it might occur months from now .
ck02.19.1	dat-np-np	It could take tomorrow night to place , or it might occur months from now .
ck02.25.0	ref	He saw no life , but still stood there for a time peering at the unlovely hills , his gaze continually returning to Papa-san .
ck02.25.1	post-adj2	He saw no life , but still stood for a time there peering at the unlovely hills , his gaze continually returning to Papa-san .
ck02.26.0	ref	He had come here in order to test himself .
ck02.26.1	post-adv	He in order to test himself had come here .
ck02.27.0	ref	While most of his beliefs were still unsettled , he knew that he did not believe in killing .
ck02.27.1	pre-adv	He knew that he did not believe in killing , while most of his beliefs were still unsettled .
ck02.29.0	ref	He had come because he could not live out his life feeling that he had been a coward .
ck02.29.1	post-adv	Because he could not live out his life feeling that he had been a coward he had come .
ck02.35.0	ref	`` We just sit quiet and wait '' , Prevot had said .
ck02.35.1	quote	`` We just sit quiet and wait '' , had said Prevot .
ck02.37.0	ref	If Joe does n't show up , we 'll all be back here at 0600 hours .
ck02.37.1	pre-adv	We 'll all be back here at 0600 hours , if Joe does n't show up .
ck02.37.2	post-adj2	If Joe does n't show up , we 'll all be at 0600 hours back here .
ck02.39.0	ref	Then we pull out under our mortar and artillery cover , but nobody pulls out until I say so .
ck02.39.1	post-adv	Then we pull out under our mortar and artillery cover , but until I say so nobody pulls out .
ck02.43.0	ref	At 2130 hours they had passed through the barbed wire at the point of departure .
ck02.43.1	post-adj2	At 2130 hours they had passed at the point of departure through the barbed wire .
ck02.46.0	ref	Ours were kinder than theirs , some said .
ck02.46.1	quote	Ours were kinder than theirs , said some .
ck02.47.0	ref	They set bouncing betties to jump and explode at testicle level while we more mercifully had them go off at the head .
ck02.47.1	post-adv	While we more mercifully had them go off at the head they set bouncing betties to jump and explode at testicle level .
ck02.59.0	ref	Prevot had said that the searchlights would be bounced off the clouds at 2230 hours , `` which gives us time to get settled in position '' .
ck02.59.1	dat-np-np	Prevot had said that the searchlights would be bounced off the clouds at 2230 hours , `` which gives time to get settled in position to us '' .
ck02.59.2	post-adj2	Prevot had said that the searchlights would be bounced at 2230 hours off the clouds , `` which gives us time to get settled in position '' .
ck02.60.0	ref	Because they were new men and to be sure that they did n't get lost , Prevot had placed Warren and White in the center of the patrol as it filed out .
ck02.60.1	post-adv	Because they were new men and to be sure that they did n't get lost , Prevot as it filed out had placed Warren and White in the center of the patrol .
ck02.67.0	ref	If a branch extended out too far , each man held it back for the next , and if they met a low overhang , each warned the other .
ck02.67.1	pre-adv	Each man held it back for the next , if a branch extended out too far , and if they met a low overhang , each warned the other .
ck02.67.2	pre-adv	If a branch extended out too far , each man held it back for the next , and each warned the other , if they met a low overhang .
ck02.70.0	ref	And with each sigh , like a whip in the hand of an expert , the grass stripped something from Warren .
ck02.70.1	pre-adj2	And like a whip in the hand of an expert , with each sigh , the grass stripped something from Warren .
ck02.72.0	ref	The shapes of the men ahead of him lacked solidity , as if the whip had stripped them of their very flesh .
ck02.72.1	post-adv	As if the whip had stripped them of their very flesh , the shapes of the men ahead of him lacked solidity .
ck02.81.0	ref	From the east to the west coast of the Korean peninsula was a strip of land in which fear-filled men were at that same moment furtively crawling through the night , sitting in sweaty anticipation of any movement or sound , or shouting amidst confused rifle flashes and muzzle blasts .
ck02.81.1	post-adj2	From the east to the west coast of the Korean peninsula was a strip of land in which fear-filled men were furtively at that same moment crawling through the night , sitting in sweaty anticipation of any movement or sound , or shouting amidst confused rifle flashes and muzzle blasts .
ck02.86.0	ref	`` Give me your machine gun ammo '' .
ck02.86.1	dat-np-np	`` Give your machine gun ammo to me '' .
ck02.87.0	ref	Warren handed him the metal box and Prevot quietly disappeared down the line .
ck02.87.1	dat-np-np	Warren handed the metal box to him and Prevot quietly disappeared down the line .
ck02.88.0	ref	Lying in the grass behind the brush clump , Warren looked about .
ck02.88.1	post-adj2	Lying behind the brush clump in the grass , Warren looked about .
ck02.91.0	ref	Even at this short distance they were only vague shapes , setting up the machine gun on a small knoll so that it could fire above the heads of the rest of the patrol .
ck02.91.1	post-adv	Even at this short distance they were only vague shapes , so that it could fire above the heads of the rest of the patrol setting up the machine gun on a small knoll .
ck02.95.0	ref	Although the armored vest fitted the upper part of his body snugly , he felt no security .
ck02.95.1	pre-adv	He felt no security , although the armored vest fitted the upper part of his body snugly .
ck02.96.0	ref	Figures seemed to crouch in the surrounding dark ; in the distance he saw a band of men who seemed to advance and retreat even as he watched .
ck02.96.1	post-adv	Figures seemed to crouch in the surrounding dark ; in the distance he saw a band of men who even as he watched seemed to advance and retreat .
ck02.98.0	ref	He was aware of insistent inner beatings , as if prisoners within sought release from his rigid body .
ck02.98.1	post-adv	As if prisoners within sought release from his rigid body , he was aware of insistent inner beatings .
ck02.104.0	ref	In France he had puzzled the meaning of the great stone monuments men had thrown up to the sky , and always as he wandered , he felt a stranger to their exultation .
ck02.104.1	pre-adv	In France he had puzzled the meaning of the great stone monuments men had thrown up to the sky , and always he felt a stranger to their exultation , as he wandered .
ck02.106.0	ref	Brittany , that stone-gray mystery through which he traveled for thirty days , sleeping in the barns of farmers or alongside roads , had worked some subtle change in him , he knew , and it was in Brittany that he had met Pierre .
ck02.106.1	quote	Brittany , that stone-gray mystery through which he traveled for thirty days , sleeping in the barns of farmers or alongside roads , had worked some subtle change in him , knew he , and it was in Brittany that he had met Pierre .
ck02.108.0	ref	With leather cups fitted in his handlebars , he steered his bicycle .
ck02.108.1	pre-adv	He steered his bicycle , with leather cups fitted in his handlebars .
ck02.109.0	ref	He and Warren had traveled together for four days .
ck02.109.1	post-adj2	He and Warren had traveled for four days together .
ck02.114.0	ref	`` C'est formidable '' , they exclaimed .
ck02.114.1	quote	`` C'est formidable '' , exclaimed they .
ck02.119.0	ref	`` Oh , the French are a very curious people '' , Pierre had laughed .
ck02.119.1	quote	`` Oh , the French are a very curious people '' , had laughed Pierre .
ck02.131.0	ref	He smiled and stuck a large finger with white hairs sprouting on it into his ear as though that might help .
ck02.131.1	post-adv	He as though that might help smiled and stuck a large finger with white hairs sprouting on it into his ear .
ck03.1.0	ref	Mickie sat over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue .
ck03.1.1	post-adj2	Mickie sat in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue over his second whisky-on-the-rocks .
ck03.5.0	ref	This was one place where Moonan could go for a drink in a back booth without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down .
ck03.5.1	post-adj3	This was one place where Moonan could go in a back booth for a drink without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down .
ck03.5.2	post-adj3	This was one place where Moonan could go without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down in a back booth for a drink .
ck03.5.3	post-adj3	This was one place where Moonan could go for a drink without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down in a back booth .
ck03.5.4	post-adj3	This was one place where Moonan could go without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down for a drink in a back booth .
ck03.5.5	post-adj3	This was one place where Moonan could go in a back booth without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down for a drink .
ck03.9.0	ref	She was wise enough to realize a man could be good company even if he did weigh too much and did n't own the mint .
ck03.9.1	post-adv	She was wise enough to realize a man even if he did weigh too much and did n't own the mint could be good company .
ck03.13.0	ref	Mickie had a pleasant glow as he said , `` You see , both of them , I mean the President and Jeff Lawrence , are romantics .
ck03.13.1	post-adv	As he said , `` You see , both of them , I mean the President and Jeff Lawrence , are romantics Mickie had a pleasant glow .
ck03.15.0	ref	It 's like focusing a camera ; the distant ship is n't there until you get the focus .
ck03.15.1	post-adj2	It 's like focusing a camera ; the distant ship is n't until you get the focus there .
ck03.17.0	ref	I 'm sure all girls feel this way about men until they live with them .
ck03.17.1	post-adj2	I 'm sure all girls feel this way until they live with them about men .
ck03.18.0	ref	`` But when it comes to war , the Colonel knows what it is and Jeff does n't .
ck03.18.1	pre-adv	`` But the Colonel knows what it is , when it comes to war , and Jeff does n't .
ck03.22.0	ref	He 'd shoot at anything if it was the rear end of a horse or his own sentry .
ck03.22.1	post-adv	He if it was the rear end of a horse or his own sentry 'd shoot at anything .
ck03.32.0	ref	It was left out of him at birth .
ck03.32.1	post-adj2	It was left at birth out of him .
ck03.40.0	ref	The Colonel ordered that it be wiped out , and I suggested ' You ask for volunteers , and promise each man on the patrol a quart of whisky , ten dollars and a week-end pass to Davao .
ck03.40.1	dat-np-np	The Colonel ordered that it be wiped out , and I suggested ' You ask for volunteers , and promise a quart of whisky to each man on the patrol , ten dollars and a week-end pass to Davao .
ck03.42.0	ref	The patrol snaked around in back of the cave , approached it from above and dropped in suddenly with wild howls .
ck03.42.1	post-adj2	The patrol snaked in back of the cave around , approached it from above and dropped in suddenly with wild howls .
ck03.45.0	ref	We knew the enemy was subdued , because a flare was fired as the signal .
ck03.45.1	post-adv	Because a flare was fired as the signal , we knew the enemy was subdued .
ck03.49.0	ref	When we got there , Trig and the Negro were quarreling over possession of a gold crucifix around the neck of a wounded Filipino .
ck03.49.1	pre-adv	Trig and the Negro were quarreling over possession of a gold crucifix around the neck of a wounded Filipino , when we got there .
ck03.50.0	ref	The colored boy had it , and Trig lunged at him with a knife and said ' Give that to me , you black bastard .
ck03.50.1	dat-np-np	The colored boy had it , and Trig lunged at him with a knife and said ' Give you black bastard to me , to that .
ck03.50.2	post-adj2	The colored boy had it , and Trig lunged with a knife at him and said ' Give that to me , you black bastard .
ck03.50.3	dat-np-pp	The colored boy had it , and Trig lunged at him with a knife and said ' Give me that , you black bastard .
ck03.51.0	ref	We do n't 'low nigras to walk on the same sidewalk with white men where I come from .
ck03.51.1	post-adj2	We do n't 'low nigras to walk with white men on the same sidewalk where I come from .
ck03.52.0	ref	`` The Negro got a bad slice on his chest from the knife wound '' .
ck03.52.1	post-adj2	`` The Negro got a bad slice from the knife wound on his chest '' .
ck03.58.0	ref	When he was in the war , he was in Law or Supplies or something like that , and an old buddy of his told me he would come down on Sundays to the Pentagon and read the citations for medals -- just like the one we sent in for Trig -- and go away with a real glow .
ck03.58.1	pre-adv	He was in Law or Supplies or something like that , when he was in the war , and an old buddy of his told me he would come down on Sundays to the Pentagon and read the citations for medals -- just like the one we sent in for Trig -- and go away with a real glow .
ck03.58.2	post-adj2	When he was in the war , he was in Law or Supplies or something like that , and an old buddy of his told me he would come down to the Pentagon on Sundays and read the citations for medals -- just like the one we sent in for Trig -- and go away with a real glow .
ck03.61.0	ref	He had dinner and sat there over his coffee watching the winding pattern of traffic as it crossed the bridge and spread out like a serpent with two heads .
ck03.61.1	post-adv	He had dinner and sat there over his coffee as it crossed the bridge and spread out like a serpent with two heads watching the winding pattern of traffic .
ck03.61.2	post-adj2	He had dinner and sat over his coffee there watching the winding pattern of traffic as it crossed the bridge and spread out like a serpent with two heads .
ck03.63.0	ref	He thought how this dainty , fragile older woman threading her way through the streets of Westminster on a day in June , enjoying the flowers in the shops , the greetings from old friends , but never really drawing a deep , passionate breath , was so like himself .
ck03.63.1	post-adj2	He thought how this dainty , fragile older woman threading her way on a day in June through the streets of Westminster , enjoying the flowers in the shops , the greetings from old friends , but never really drawing a deep , passionate breath , was so like himself .
ck03.64.0	ref	He , and Mrs. Dalloway , too , had never permitted themselves the luxury of joys that dug into the bone marrow of the spirit .
ck03.64.1	dat-np-np	He , and Mrs. Dalloway , too , had never permitted the luxury of joys that dug into the bone marrow of the spirit to themselves .
ck03.65.0	ref	He had not because he was both poor and ambitious .
ck03.65.1	post-adv	He because he was both poor and ambitious had not .
ck03.77.0	ref	He must mentally pull the blinds and close the window , so that all that existed was in the books before him .
ck03.77.1	post-adv	He , so that all that existed was in the books before him , must mentally pull the blinds and close the window .
ck03.85.0	ref	If he had had a son , he would tell him , `` Gather ye rosebuds while ye may This same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying '' .
ck03.85.1	post-adv	If he had had a son , he while ye may would tell him , `` Gather ye rosebuds This same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying '' .
ck03.85.2	pre-adv	He would tell him , `` Gather ye rosebuds while ye may This same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying '' , if he had had a son .
ck03.93.0	ref	Lawrence could not put his finger on it precisely , and this worried him .
ck03.93.1	post-adj2	Lawrence could not put his finger precisely on it , and this worried him .
ck03.94.0	ref	When you disliked or distrusted a man , you should have a reason .
ck03.94.1	pre-adv	You should have a reason , when you disliked or distrusted a man .
ck03.96.0	ref	Lawrence stared a minute at the lighted ribbon of traffic , hoping that a clue to his dislike of the Vice President would appear .
ck03.96.1	post-adj2	Lawrence stared at the lighted ribbon of traffic a minute , hoping that a clue to his dislike of the Vice President would appear .
ck03.100.0	ref	He looked very carefully at every piece of furnishing , as though hoping to store this information carefully in his mind .
ck03.100.1	post-adv	As though hoping to store this information carefully in his mind , he looked very carefully at every piece of furnishing .
ck03.100.2	post-adj2	He looked at every piece of furnishing very carefully , as though hoping to store this information carefully in his mind .
ck03.104.0	ref	He waved his arm around at the furnishings .
ck03.104.1	post-adj2	He waved his arm at the furnishings around .
ck03.105.0	ref	It was not a discourteous question , Lawrence decided .
ck03.105.1	quote	It was not a discourteous question , decided Lawrence .
ck03.108.0	ref	He merely said , `` Any good decorator these days can make you a tasteful home '' .
ck03.108.1	dat-np-np	He merely said , `` Any good decorator these days can make a tasteful home to you '' .
ck03.109.0	ref	The Vice President said , `` If you hear of any names that would fix me cheap in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President 's home , let me know .
ck03.109.1	post-adv	If you hear of any names that would fix me cheap in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President 's home , the Vice President said , `` let me know .
ck03.109.2	pre-adv	The Vice President said , `` let me know , if you hear of any names that would fix me cheap in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President 's home .
ck03.115.0	ref	Boxell looked at Lawrence with a searching glance , the kind that a prosecuting attorney would give a man on trial .
ck03.115.1	post-adj2	Boxell looked with a searching glance , the kind that a prosecuting attorney would give a man on trial at Lawrence .
ck03.126.0	ref	Congress is full of politicians , and if you want to get along with them , you have to be politic .
ck03.126.1	pre-adv	Congress is full of politicians , and you have to be politic , if you want to get along with them .
ck03.126.2	post-adj2	Congress is full of politicians , and if you want to get with them along , you have to be politic .
ck03.128.0	ref	Let me tell you what happened to me today .
ck03.128.1	post-adj2	Let me tell you what happened today to me .
ck03.129.0	ref	A fellow came up to me , a Senator , I do n't have to tell you his name , and he told me ' I love the President like a brother , but God damn it , he 's crucifying me .
ck03.129.1	dat-np-np	A fellow came up to me , a Senator , I do n't have to tell his name to you , and he told me ' I love the President like a brother , but God damn it , he 's crucifying me .
ck03.130.0	ref	I 've got a quarter of a million Germans in my state , and those krautheads tune in on Father Werther every night , and if he tells them to go out and piss in the public square , that 's what they do .
ck03.130.1	pre-adv	I 've got a quarter of a million Germans in my state , and those krautheads tune in on Father Werther every night , and that 's what they do , if he tells them to go out and piss in the public square .
ck04.1.0	ref	The Bishop looked at him coldly and said , `` Take it or leave it '' !
ck04.1.1	post-adj2	The Bishop looked coldly at him and said , `` Take it or leave it '' !
ck04.7.0	ref	But it had , as was usual in southern cities of this sort , a Black Bottom , a low region near the river where the Negroes lived -- servants and laborers huddled together in a region with no sewage save the river , where streets and sidewalks were neglected and where there was much poverty and crime .
ck04.7.1	post-adv	As was usual in southern cities of this sort , but it had a Black Bottom , a low region near the river where the Negroes lived -- servants and laborers huddled together in a region with no sewage save the river , where streets and sidewalks were neglected and where there was much poverty and crime .
ck04.8.0	ref	Wilson came by train from Birmingham and looked the city over ; the rather pleasant white city was on the hill where the chief stores were .
ck04.8.1	post-adj2	Wilson came from Birmingham by train and looked the city over ; the rather pleasant white city was on the hill where the chief stores were .
ck04.14.0	ref	It had been there 50 years or more and everybody in town , black and white , knew of it .
ck04.14.1	post-adj2	It had been 50 years or more there and everybody in town , black and white , knew of it .
ck04.16.0	ref	For the old preacher who had been there twenty-five years was dead , and the city mourned him .
ck04.16.1	post-adj2	For the old preacher who had been twenty-five years there was dead , and the city mourned him .
ck04.21.0	ref	A knot of old worshippers , chiefly women , listened weekly to a sermon .
ck04.21.1	post-adj2	A knot of old worshippers , chiefly women , listened to a sermon weekly .
ck04.22.0	ref	It began invariably in low tones , almost conversational , and then gradually worked up to high , shrill appeals to God and man .
ck04.22.1	post-adj2	It began in low tones , almost conversational invariably , and then gradually worked up to high , shrill appeals to God and man .
ck04.26.0	ref	It sometimes ended in death-like trances with many lying exhausted and panting on chair and floor .
ck04.26.1	post-adv	With many lying exhausted and panting on chair and floor it sometimes ended in death-like trances .
ck04.30.0	ref	He had preached a short sermon , trying to talk man-to-man to the audience , to tell them who he was , what he had done in Macon and Birmingham , and what he proposed to do here .
ck04.30.1	post-adj2	He had preached a short sermon , trying to talk to the audience man-to-man , to tell them who he was , what he had done in Macon and Birmingham , and what he proposed to do here .
ck04.31.0	ref	He sympathized with them on the loss of their old pastor .
ck04.31.1	post-adj2	He sympathized on the loss of their old pastor with them .
ck04.34.0	ref	At the very end , when the audience was silent and breathless , a collection was taken and then slowly everyone filed out .
ck04.34.1	pre-adv	At the very end a collection was taken , when the audience was silent and breathless , and then slowly everyone filed out .
ck04.38.0	ref	It was arranged that he would board in the home of one of the old members of the church , a woman named Catt who , as Wilson afterward found , was briefly referred to as The Cat because of her sharp tongue and fierce initiative .
ck04.38.1	pre-adv	It was arranged that he would board in the home of one of the old members of the church , a woman named Catt who , was briefly referred to as The Cat because of her sharp tongue and fierce initiative , as Wilson afterward found .
ck04.40.0	ref	She soared over the new pastor like an avenging angel lest he stray from the path and not know all the truth and gossip of which she was chief repository .
ck04.40.1	post-adv	Lest he stray from the path and not know all the truth and gossip of which she was chief repository she soared over the new pastor like an avenging angel .
ck04.40.2	post-adj2	She soared like an avenging angel over the new pastor lest he stray from the path and not know all the truth and gossip of which she was chief repository .
ck04.43.0	ref	Wilson made up his mind that he must receive at least $ 2,500 , but when he mentioned this to the Deacons they said nothing .
ck04.43.1	pre-adv	Wilson made up his mind that he must receive at least $ 2,500 , but they said nothing , when he mentioned this to the Deacons .
ck04.53.0	ref	There were two liquor saloons not very far from the church , one white , that is conducted for white people with a side entrance for Negroes ; the other exclusively Negro .
ck04.53.1	post-adj2	There were two liquor saloons not very far from the church , one white , that is conducted with a side entrance for Negroes for white people ; the other exclusively Negro .
ck04.65.0	ref	Dives , carefully repaired huts , and nicely painted and ornamented cottages were jumbled together cheek by jowl with little distinction .
ck04.65.1	post-adj2	Dives , carefully repaired huts , and nicely painted and ornamented cottages were jumbled with little distinction cheek by jowl together .
ck04.70.0	ref	He talked about it to the Presiding Elder .
ck04.70.1	post-adj2	He talked to the Presiding Elder about it .
ck04.75.0	ref	Wilson stressed the fact that clear as this was , they must have a better church , a more business-like conduct of the church organization , and an effort to get this religious center out of its rut of wild worship into a modern church organization .
ck04.75.1	post-adj2	Wilson stressed the fact that clear as this was , they must have a better church , a more business-like conduct of the church organization , and an effort to get this religious center into a modern church organization out of its rut of wild worship .
ck04.82.0	ref	When it was proposed to rebuild the church , Wilson found that the terms for a new mortgage were very high .
ck04.82.1	pre-adv	Wilson found that the terms for a new mortgage were very high , when it was proposed to rebuild the church .
ck04.83.0	ref	He was sure that he could do better if he went to Atlanta to get the deal financed .
ck04.83.1	post-adv	He was sure that he if he went to Atlanta to get the deal financed could do better .
ck04.84.0	ref	But when this proposal was made to his Deacon Board , he met unanimous opposition .
ck04.84.1	pre-adv	But he met unanimous opposition , when this proposal was made to his Deacon Board .
ck04.87.0	ref	It had been here fifty years .
ck04.87.1	post-adj2	It had been fifty years here .
ck04.93.0	ref	Do n't you see the amount of money that has been invested by whites around that church ?
ck04.93.1	post-adj2	Do n't you see the amount of money that has been invested around that church by whites ?
ck04.96.0	ref	When a city has arranged things like this you can not easily change them .
ck04.96.1	pre-adv	You can not easily change them when a city has arranged things like this .
ck04.97.0	ref	Now , if I were you I would just plan to repair the old church so it would last for five or ten years .
ck04.97.1	post-adv	Now , if I were you I would just plan so it would last for five or ten years to repair the old church .
ck04.97.2	pre-adv	Now I would just plan to repair the old church so it would last for five or ten years , if I were you .
ck04.98.0	ref	By that time , perhaps something better can be done '' .
ck04.98.1	pre-adj2	Perhaps , by that time something better can be done '' .
ck04.101.0	ref	The young banker looked at him with a certain surprise , and then he said flatly : `` I 'm afraid I ca n't tell you anything in particular about Kent House .
ck04.101.1	dat-np-np	The young banker looked at him with a certain surprise , and then he said flatly : `` I 'm afraid I ca n't tell anything in particular about Kent House to you .
ck04.101.2	post-adj2	The young banker looked with a certain surprise at him , and then he said flatly : `` I 'm afraid I ca n't tell you anything in particular about Kent House .
ck04.102.0	ref	You 'll have to find out about it on your own .
ck04.102.1	post-adj2	You 'll have to find out on your own about it .
ck04.116.0	ref	And after Wilson had talked to Mrs. Catt and to others , he was absolutely amazed .
ck04.116.1	pre-adv	And he was absolutely amazed , after Wilson had talked to Mrs. Catt and to others .
ck04.125.0	ref	And for him to leave this job now without accomplishing anything would mean practically the end of his career in the Methodist church , if not in all churches .
ck04.125.1	post-adj2	And for him to leave this job without accomplishing anything now would mean practically the end of his career in the Methodist church , if not in all churches .
ck05.1.0	ref	Payne dismounted in Madison Place and handed the reins to Herold .
ck05.1.1	dat-np-pp	Payne dismounted in Madison Place and handed Herold the reins .
ck05.14.0	ref	He clomped heavily up the stoop and rang the bell .
ck05.14.1	post-adj2	He clomped up the stoop heavily and rang the bell .
ck05.16.0	ref	It was still Good Friday , after all .
ck05.16.1	post-adj2	It was after all Good Friday , still .
ck05.19.0	ref	He was thinking chiefly of Cap .
ck05.19.1	post-adj2	He was thinking of Cap chiefly .
ck05.20.0	ref	If their schedules were to synchronize , there was no point in wasting time .
ck05.20.1	pre-adv	There was no point in wasting time , if their schedules were to synchronize .
ck05.29.0	ref	He did not really want to kill , but as in the sexual act , there was a moment when the impulse took over and could not be downed , even while you watched yourself giving way to it .
ck05.29.1	post-adv	He did not really want to kill , but as in the sexual act , there was a moment when , even while you watched yourself giving way to it , the impulse took over and could not be downed .
ck05.35.0	ref	He could only watch with a sort of gentle dismay while his body did these quick , appalling , and efficient things .
ck05.35.1	post-adv	He while his body did these quick , appalling , and efficient things could only watch with a sort of gentle dismay .
ck05.44.0	ref	Frederick Seward said his father was sleeping , and then went through a pantomime at his father 's door , to prove the statement .
ck05.44.1	post-adj2	Frederick Seward said his father was sleeping , and then went at his father 's door through a pantomime , to prove the statement .
ck05.51.0	ref	Reversing it , he smashed the butt down on Frederick Seward 's head , over and over again .
ck05.51.1	post-adj2	Reversing it , he smashed the butt over and over again , down on Frederick Seward 's head .
ck05.55.0	ref	Only afterwards did an act like that become meaningless , so that he would puzzle over it for days , whereas at the time it had seemed quite real .
ck05.55.1	post-adv	So that he would puzzle over it for days only afterwards did an act like that become meaningless , whereas at the time it had seemed quite real .
ck05.55.2	post-adj2	Only afterwards did an act like that become meaningless , so that he would puzzle for days over it , whereas at the time it had seemed quite real .
ck05.65.0	ref	He saw only dimly moving figures , but when he slashed them they yelled and fled .
ck05.65.1	pre-adv	He saw only dimly moving figures , but they yelled and fled when he slashed them .
ck05.74.0	ref	When the knife went into his chest , he went down at once .
ck05.74.1	pre-adv	He went down at once , when the knife went into his chest .
ck05.94.0	ref	He was sure , for he had done as he was told , had n't he ?
ck05.94.1	post-adv	He was sure , for he as he was told had done , had n't he ?
ck05.96.0	ref	So choosing a good tree , he clambered up into it , found a comfortable notch , and curled up in it to sleep , like the tousled bear he was , with his hands across his chest , as though surfeited with honey .
ck05.96.1	post-adv	So choosing a good tree , he clambered up into it , found a comfortable notch , and curled up in it , as though surfeited with honey , to sleep , like the tousled bear he was , with his hands across his chest .
ck05.106.0	ref	If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing at this hour , with her Aunt Asia , in Philadelphia .
ck05.106.1	pre-adv	It was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing at this hour , with her Aunt Asia , in Philadelphia , if he had any worries .
ck05.106.2	post-adj3	If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing with her Aunt Asia , at this hour , in Philadelphia .
ck05.106.3	post-adj3	If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing in Philadelphia , with her Aunt Asia , at this hour .
ck05.106.4	post-adj3	If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing at this hour , in Philadelphia , with her Aunt Asia .
ck05.106.5	post-adj3	If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing , in Philadelphia , at this hour , with her Aunt Asia .
ck05.106.6	post-adj3	If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing with her Aunt Asia , in Philadelphia , at this hour .
ck05.107.0	ref	Everyone is ambivalent about his profession , if he has practised it long enough , but there were still moments when he loved the stage and all those unseen people out there , who might cheer you or boo you , but that was largely , though not entirely , up to you .
ck05.107.1	post-adv	If he has practised it long enough , everyone is ambivalent about his profession , but there were still moments when he loved the stage and all those unseen people out there , who might cheer you or boo you , but that was largely , though not entirely , up to you .
ck05.108.0	ref	They made the world seem friendly somehow , though he knew it was not .
ck05.108.1	post-adv	Though he knew it was not , they made the world seem friendly somehow .
ck05.113.0	ref	Since she could not act , one part suited her as well as any other , and so she was the first person to offer Mr. Lincoln a glass of water , holding it up to the box , high above her head , to Miss Harris , who had asked for it .
ck05.113.1	dat-np-np	Since she could not act , one part suited her as well as any other , and so she was the first person to offer a glass of water to Mr. Lincoln , holding it up to the box , high above her head , to Miss Harris , who had asked for it .
ck05.113.2	pre-adv	One part suited her as well as any other , since she could not act , and so she was the first person to offer Mr. Lincoln a glass of water , holding it up to the box , high above her head , to Miss Harris , who had asked for it .
ck05.115.0	ref	It was not so much that the shot had stunned the audience , as that they had been stunned already .
ck05.115.1	post-adj2	It was not as that they had been stunned already that the shot had stunned the audience , so much .
ck05.116.0	ref	Most of them had seen Our American Cousin before , and unless Miss Keene was on stage , there was not much to it .
ck05.116.1	pre-adv	Most of them had seen Our American Cousin before , and there was not much to it , unless Miss Keene was on stage .
ck05.124.0	ref	There was always a pause here , before the next line .
ck05.124.1	post-adj3	There was here a pause always , before the next line .
ck05.124.2	post-adj3	There was before the next line a pause here , always .
ck05.124.3	post-adj3	There was always a pause before the next line , here .
ck05.124.4	post-adj3	There was , before the next line , always a pause here .
ck05.124.5	post-adj3	There was a pause here , before the next line always .
ck05.127.0	ref	Guns were going off all over Washington City these days , because of the celebrations , and the theatre was not soundproof .
ck05.127.1	post-adj3	Guns were going off these days all over Washington City , because of the celebrations , and the theatre was not soundproof .
ck05.127.2	post-adj3	Guns were going off because of the celebrations these days , all over Washington City , and the theatre was not soundproof .
ck05.127.3	post-adj3	Guns were going off all over Washington City because of the celebrations , these days , and the theatre was not soundproof .
ck05.127.4	post-adj3	Guns were going off , because of the celebrations , all over Washington City these days , and the theatre was not soundproof .
ck05.127.5	post-adj3	Guns were going off these days , because of the celebrations all over Washington City , and the theatre was not soundproof .
ck05.153.0	ref	When something unexpected happened , one always asked for water if one were a woman , brandy if one were a man .
ck05.153.1	pre-adv	One always asked for water if one were a woman , brandy if one were a man , when something unexpected happened .
ck05.158.0	ref	Laura Keene brushed by him with the glass of water .
ck05.158.1	post-adj2	Laura Keene brushed with the glass of water by him .
ck05.163.0	ref	At the rear of the auditorium , upstairs , some men tried to push open the door to the box corridor .
ck05.163.1	pre-adj2	Upstairs , at the rear of the auditorium , some men tried to push open the door to the box corridor .
ck05.166.0	ref	In the audience a man named Ferguson lost his head and tried to rescue a little girl from the mob , on the same principle which had led Miss Harris to demand water .
ck05.166.1	post-adj2	In the audience a man named Ferguson lost his head and tried to rescue a little girl on the same principle which had led Miss Harris to demand water , from the mob .
ck05.169.0	ref	He went straight to the Presidential box .
ck05.169.1	post-adj2	He went to the Presidential box straight .
ck06.18.0	ref	He could feel his own feet , iron-shod , striking repeatedly until the body was limp .
ck06.18.1	post-adj2	He could feel his own feet , iron-shod , striking until the body was limp repeatedly .
ck06.33.0	ref	`` Stevie , wake up now !
ck06.33.1	post-adj2	`` Stevie , wake now up !
ck06.34.0	ref	We 're nearly there '' .
ck06.34.1	post-adj2	We 're there nearly '' .
ck06.38.0	ref	Houses winked as the cars rolled beside a little depot .
ck06.38.1	post-adv	As the cars rolled beside a little depot houses winked .
ck06.43.0	ref	The room vibrated as if a giant hand had rocked it .
ck06.43.1	post-adv	As if a giant hand had rocked it the room vibrated .
ck06.61.0	ref	`` I know , Stephen '' , she smiled .
ck06.61.1	quote	`` I know , Stephen '' , smiled she .
ck06.66.0	ref	The steeple leaned backward , while the church advanced like a headless creature in a long , shapeless coat .
ck06.66.1	post-adv	While the church advanced like a headless creature in a long , shapeless coat , the steeple leaned backward .
ck06.70.0	ref	The Catholics had the largest cemetery , near the Neversink River where Main Street ran south ; Stevie whistled when he passed these alien grounds .
ck06.70.1	post-adv	The Catholics had the largest cemetery , near the Neversink River where Main Street ran south ; when he passed these alien grounds Stevie whistled .
ck06.71.0	ref	God was everywhere , in the belfry , in the steeple , in the clouds , in the trees , and in the mountains hulking on the horizon .
ck06.71.1	post-adj2	God was in the belfry , in the steeple , in the clouds , in the trees , and in the mountains hulking on the horizon , everywhere .
ck06.73.0	ref	So , walking in awe , he became familiar with God , who resided chiefly in Drew Centennial Church with its high steeple and clock .
ck06.73.1	post-adj2	So , walking in awe , he became familiar with God , who resided in Drew Centennial Church with its high steeple and clock chiefly .
ck06.77.0	ref	The veterans , idling on their benches in the Square , beneath the soldiers ' monument , got to their feet when Papa approached : `` Morning , Reverend '' !
ck06.77.1	post-adv	When Papa approached the veterans , idling on their benches in the Square , beneath the soldiers ' monument , got to their feet : `` Morning , Reverend '' !
ck06.80.0	ref	When Papa went out to do God 's work , Stevie often accompanied him in the buggy , which was drawn by Violet , the new black mare .
ck06.80.1	pre-adv	Stevie often accompanied him in the buggy , which was drawn by Violet , the new black mare , when Papa went out to do God 's work .
ck06.81.0	ref	Although they journeyed westerly as far as Germantown , beyond the Erie roundhouse and the machine shop , and along the Delaware and Hudson Canal , and northward to Brooklyn , below Point Peter , he could see the church spire wherever he looked back .
ck06.81.1	pre-adv	He could see the church spire wherever he looked back , although they journeyed westerly as far as Germantown , beyond the Erie roundhouse and the machine shop , and along the Delaware and Hudson Canal , and northward to Brooklyn , below Point Peter .
ck06.81.2	post-adj2	Although they journeyed as far as Germantown , beyond the Erie roundhouse and the machine shop , and along the Delaware and Hudson Canal westerly , and northward to Brooklyn , below Point Peter , he could see the church spire wherever he looked back .
ck06.93.0	ref	`` No , he wo n't '' ! Stevie flared .
ck06.93.1	quote	`` No , he wo n't '' ! flared Stevie .
ck06.105.0	ref	He pulled with all his strength at the heavy , brass-bound door , and shuffled along the wainscoted wall .
ck06.105.1	post-adj2	He pulled at the heavy , brass-bound door with all his strength , and shuffled along the wainscoted wall .
ck06.113.0	ref	When Papa 's slender fingers removed the spectacles , there were red indentations on the bridge of the strong nose .
ck06.113.1	pre-adv	There were red indentations on the bridge of the strong nose , when Papa 's slender fingers removed the spectacles .
ck06.115.0	ref	Perhaps one day He will choose you as He chose me , long ago .
ck06.115.1	pre-adj2	One day perhaps He will choose you as He chose me , long ago .
ck06.115.2	post-adv	Perhaps one day He as He chose me , long ago will choose you .
ck06.116.0	ref	Therefore , give Him your affection and store up His love for you .
ck06.116.1	dat-np-np	Therefore , give your affection to Him and store up His love for you .
ck06.118.0	ref	For His mercy and His guidance to spare you from evil and eternal punishment in the Lake of Fire '' .
ck06.118.1	post-adj2	For His mercy and His guidance to spare you in the Lake of Fire from evil and eternal punishment '' .
ck06.128.0	ref	Yet how might he know the Call when it came ?
ck06.128.1	post-adv	Yet how when it came might he know the Call ?
ck06.129.0	ref	Probably , as in Scriptures , a still , small voice would whisper .
ck06.129.1	pre-adj2	As in Scriptures , probably , a still , small voice would whisper .
ck06.131.0	ref	What if it came when he was playing , or was asleep and dreaming ?
ck06.131.1	post-adv	What if when he was playing , or was asleep and dreaming it came ?
ck06.133.0	ref	He was Papa 's chosen ; therefore , nothing but good could happen to him , even in God 's wrathful storms .
ck06.133.1	post-adj2	He was Papa 's chosen ; therefore , nothing but good could happen even in God 's wrathful storms , to him .
ck06.134.0	ref	When the skies grew dark and thunder rolled across the valley , he was unafraid .
ck06.134.1	pre-adv	He was unafraid , when the skies grew dark and thunder rolled across the valley .
ck06.136.0	ref	Lightning could strike you blind if you were a sinner !
ck06.136.1	post-adv	Lightning if you were a sinner could strike you blind !
ck06.141.0	ref	A flash illumined the trees as a crooked bolt twigged in several directions .
ck06.141.1	post-adv	As a crooked bolt twigged in several directions a flash illumined the trees .
ck06.147.0	ref	If there was a fire or a flood he would save Mama first and Violet next .
ck06.147.1	pre-adv	He would save Mama first and Violet next if there was a fire or a flood .
ck06.151.0	ref	When the sun came out , Stevie strode proudly into Orange Square , smiling like a landlord on industrious tenants .
ck06.151.1	pre-adv	Stevie strode proudly into Orange Square , smiling like a landlord on industrious tenants , when the sun came out .
ck06.153.0	ref	Even before the benches had dried , the Civil War veterans were straggling back to their places .
ck06.153.1	pre-adv	The Civil War veterans were straggling back to their places , even before the benches had dried .
ck06.153.2	post-adj2	Even before the benches had dried , the Civil War veterans were straggling to their places back .
ck06.160.0	ref	No one told on Ludie , not even when he slipped live grasshoppers into the mite-box .
ck06.160.1	post-adv	Not even when he slipped live grasshoppers into the mite-box , no one told on Ludie .
ck06.161.0	ref	Ludie did as he pleased .
ck06.161.1	post-adv	As he pleased Ludie did .
ck06.171.0	ref	A Newfoundland sat solemnly beside a doghouse half his size .
ck06.171.1	post-adj2	A Newfoundland sat beside a doghouse half his size solemnly .
ck06.174.0	ref	He meandered down Pike Street , past the First National Bank with its green window shades .
ck06.174.1	post-adj2	He meandered past the First National Bank with its green window shades , down Pike Street .
ck06.180.0	ref	`` P. J . '' -- as Ludie called the town -- was crowded with summer people who came to the mountains to escape the heat in the big cities .
ck06.180.1	pre-adv	`` P. J . '' was crowded with summer people who came to the mountains to escape the heat in the big cities -- as Ludie called the town .
ck07.14.0	ref	The snow came a little faster now , he noted .
ck07.14.1	quote	The snow came a little faster now , noted he .
ck07.14.2	post-adj2	The snow came now a little faster , he noted .
ck07.22.0	ref	What I have to put up with !
ck07.22.1	post-adj2	What I have to put with up !
ck07.27.0	ref	The big shock everybody had when they found ol Slater and those others done for .
ck07.27.1	post-adv	The big shock when they found ol Slater and those others done for everybody had .
ck07.31.0	ref	Soon came back to his senses .
ck07.31.1	post-adj2	Soon came to his senses back .
ck07.32.0	ref	`` I soon came back to my senses '' , he said , aloud , to the young blizzard , proudly , drawing himself up , as if making a report to some important superior .
ck07.32.1	post-adv	`` I soon came back to my senses '' , he said , aloud , to the young blizzard , proudly , as if making a report to some important superior , drawing himself up .
ck07.32.2	quote	`` I soon came back to my senses '' , said he , aloud , to the young blizzard , proudly , drawing himself up , as if making a report to some important superior .
ck07.32.3	post-adj2	`` I soon came to my senses back '' , he said , aloud , to the young blizzard , proudly , drawing himself up , as if making a report to some important superior .
ck07.38.0	ref	`` I told him '' , he said aloud They 'll get the guys that done it .
ck07.38.1	quote	`` I told him '' , said he aloud They 'll get the guys that done it .
ck07.42.0	ref	Maybe they 'll stop it now , once for all .
ck07.42.1	post-adj2	Maybe they 'll stop it once for all , now .
ck07.54.0	ref	It always came on , faithfully , just like a radio or juke box , whenever he started to worry too much about something , when the bad things tried to push their way into him .
ck07.54.1	post-adv	Whenever he started to worry too much about something , it always came on , faithfully , just like a radio or juke box when the bad things tried to push their way into him .
ck07.54.2	post-adv	When the bad things tried to push their way into him , it always came on , faithfully , just like a radio or juke box , whenever he started to worry too much about something .
ck07.54.3	post-adj2	It always came on , just like a radio or juke box , faithfully , whenever he started to worry too much about something , when the bad things tried to push their way into him .
ck07.56.0	ref	He glowed with anticipation about what would happen to the culprits when they caught them .
ck07.56.1	post-adv	He glowed with anticipation about what when they caught them would happen to the culprits .
ck07.56.2	post-adj2	He glowed about what would happen to the culprits when they caught them with anticipation .
ck07.58.0	ref	He had never heard the word reactionary before his life as a POW began .
ck07.58.1	post-adv	He before his life as a POW began had never heard the word reactionary .
ck07.62.0	ref	He used it very effectively when he wanted to get his squad on the ball .
ck07.62.1	post-adv	When he wanted to get his squad on the ball he used it very effectively .
ck07.63.0	ref	It came up again and again in the discussion sessions .
ck07.63.1	post-adj2	It came up in the discussion sessions again and again .
ck07.73.0	ref	One day , Ching had told him -LRB- smiling , patting him on the back -RRB- as they walked to the weekly conference of squad leaders , `` Keep it up , your squad is good , one of the best , keep it up , keep up the good work '' .
ck07.73.1	post-adv	One day , Ching , as they walked to the weekly conference of squad leaders , had told him -LRB- smiling , patting him on the back -RRB- `` Keep it up , your squad is good , one of the best , keep it up , keep up the good work '' .
ck07.77.0	ref	Dirty Reactionary bastards comin down here in the night and bumpin off ol Slater and those other poor bastards .
ck07.77.1	post-adj2	Dirty Reactionary bastards comin in the night down here and bumpin off ol Slater and those other poor bastards .
ck07.79.0	ref	His arm moved swiftly , violently , once , twice .
ck07.79.1	post-adj2	His arm moved once , twice , swiftly , violently .
ck07.97.0	ref	Now he heard it , fully ; `` bout takin his place '' He listened , waited , nothing happened .
ck07.97.1	post-adj2	Now he heard it , bout takin his place ; `` fully '' He listened , waited , nothing happened .
ck07.100.0	ref	The music arrived , taking him its rhythm .
ck07.100.1	dat-np-np	The music arrived , taking its rhythm to him .
ck07.109.0	ref	When I talked to Ching about it , he said , Everyone can learn , if he is not a Reactionary or lazy .
ck07.109.1	post-adv	When I talked to Ching about it , he said , Everyone , if he is not a Reactionary or lazy , can learn .
ck07.109.2	pre-adv	He said , Everyone can learn , if he is not a Reactionary or lazy , when I talked to Ching about it .
ck07.109.3	post-adj2	When I talked about it to Ching , he said , Everyone can learn , if he is not a Reactionary or lazy .
ck07.132.0	ref	He turned to the window again .
ck07.132.1	post-adj2	He turned again to the window .
ck07.134.0	ref	The snow was tumbling down furiously now .
ck07.134.1	post-adj2	The snow was tumbling down now furiously .
ck07.142.0	ref	Somebody , got to be somebody If I do n't put my two cents in soon , somebody else will I know they 're waitin only for one thing : for the bastards what done it to be nailed .
ck07.142.1	pre-adv	Somebody , got to be somebody somebody else will , if I do n't put my two cents in soon , I know they 're waitin only for one thing : for the bastards what done it to be nailed .
ck07.145.0	ref	Top dog , sleeping and eating right there with the Staff .
ck07.145.1	post-adj2	Top dog , sleeping and eating with the Staff right there .
ck07.151.0	ref	It was nothing , though his heart was thumping wildly .
ck07.151.1	post-adv	Though his heart was thumping wildly , it was nothing .
ck07.154.0	ref	`` Boy , you 're stirrin early '' , a sleepy voice said .
ck07.154.1	quote	`` Boy , you 're stirrin early '' , said a sleepy voice .
ck07.169.0	ref	You can do anything with these dumb fucks if you know how .
ck07.169.1	post-adv	You if you know how can do anything with these dumb fucks .
ck07.172.0	ref	Give um the works .
ck07.172.1	dat-np-np	Give the works to um .
ck07.174.0	ref	Coughlin grinned , feeling supremely on top of things .
ck07.174.1	post-adj2	Coughlin grinned , feeling on top of things supremely .
ck07.192.0	ref	How did they miss him when they got Slater ?
ck07.192.1	post-adv	How when they got Slater did they miss him ?
ck07.220.0	ref	Just let me go home to Jersey , back to the shore , oh , Jesus , the shore .
ck07.220.1	post-adj2	Just let me go to Jersey home , back to the shore , oh , Jesus , the shore .
ck07.222.0	ref	If I haf ta do this to stay alive by God I 'll do it .
ck07.222.1	pre-adv	By God I 'll do it if I haf ta do this to stay alive .
ck07.223.0	ref	I hated the goddamn army from the first day I got in anyhow .
ck07.223.1	post-adj2	I hated the goddamn army anyhow from the first day I got in .
ck07.224.0	ref	All pricks like Coughlin run it anyway , one way or another .
ck07.224.1	dat-np-np	All pricks like Coughlin run one way or another anyway , to it .
ck07.234.0	ref	Why should I be spinning just because the goddamn log is spinning ?
ck07.234.1	post-adv	Why should I just because the goddamn log is spinning be spinning ?
ck08.2.0	ref	But while the two men are riding into the country , where they are going to dinner , they are attacked in the dark of the forest by a band of thieves , who strip them of everything , including most of their clothes .
ck08.2.1	pre-adv	But they are attacked in the dark of the forest by a band of thieves , who strip them of everything , including most of their clothes , while the two men are riding into the country , where they are going to dinner .
ck08.12.0	ref	When finally the two bedraggled men reach their friend 's home , Voltaire 's fears are once again aroused .
ck08.12.1	pre-adv	Voltaire 's fears are once again aroused , when finally the two bedraggled men reach their friend 's home .
ck08.14.0	ref	To Voltaire 's surprise , however , their host gives them fresh clothes to put on , opens his purse to lend them money and sits them down before a good dinner .
ck08.14.1	dat-np-np	To Voltaire 's surprise , however , their host gives fresh clothes to put on to them , opens his purse to lend them money and sits them down before a good dinner .
ck08.14.2	dat-np-np	To Voltaire 's surprise , however , their host gives them fresh clothes to put on , opens his purse to lend money to them and sits them down before a good dinner .
ck08.14.3	pre-adj2	However , to Voltaire 's surprise , their host gives them fresh clothes to put on , opens his purse to lend them money and sits them down before a good dinner .
ck08.15.0	ref	Immediately after dinner , however , Rousseau asks for still another favor .
ck08.15.1	pre-adj2	However , immediately after dinner , Rousseau asks for still another favor .
ck08.18.0	ref	Such was the impromptu that Voltaire gave to howls of laughter at Sans Souci and that was soon circulated in manuscript throughout the literary circles of Europe , to be printed sometime later , but with the name of Timon of Athens , the famous misanthrope , substituted for that of Rousseau .
ck08.18.1	post-adj2	Such was the impromptu that Voltaire gave at Sans Souci to howls of laughter and that was soon circulated in manuscript throughout the literary circles of Europe , to be printed sometime later , but with the name of Timon of Athens , the famous misanthrope , substituted for that of Rousseau .
ck08.22.0	ref	How , for example , could a Voltaire understand the strange predicament in which a Rousseau would find himself when , soon after the furor of his first Discourse , he acquired still another title to fame ?
ck08.22.1	post-adv	How , for example , could a Voltaire understand the strange predicament in which a Rousseau when , soon after the furor of his first Discourse , he acquired still another title to fame would find himself ?
ck08.25.0	ref	Ever since he had first begun to study music and to teach it , Rousseau had dreamed of piercing through to fame as the result of a successful opera .
ck08.25.1	pre-adv	Rousseau had dreamed of piercing through to fame as the result of a successful opera , ever since he had first begun to study music and to teach it .
ck08.30.0	ref	But then one day , while on a week 's visit to the country home of a retired Swiss jeweler , Rousseau amused the company with a few little melodies he had written , to which he attached no great importance .
ck08.30.1	pre-adv	But then one day Rousseau amused the company with a few little melodies he had written , to which he attached no great importance , while on a week 's visit to the country home of a retired Swiss jeweler .
ck08.37.0	ref	`` Heaven forbid '' ! Cried the ladies , enchanted by his music .
ck08.37.1	iquote	`` Heaven forbid '' ! the ladies , enchanted by his music cried .
ck08.41.0	ref	That after all his years of effort to become a composer , he should now , now when he was still stoutly replying to the critics of his Discourse on the Arts and Sciences , be so close to a success in music and have to reject it .
ck08.41.1	post-adj2	That after all his years of effort to become a composer , he should now , now when he was stoutly still replying to the critics of his Discourse on the Arts and Sciences , be so close to a success in music and have to reject it .
ck08.54.0	ref	He could n't appear as a composer now .
ck08.54.1	post-adj2	He could n't appear now as a composer .
ck08.59.0	ref	But then , after the little operetta had been given its feeble amateur rendering , everyone insisted that it was too good to be lost forever , and that the Royal Academy of Music must now have the manuscript in order to give it the really first-rate performance it merited .
ck08.59.1	dat-np-np	But then , after the little operetta had been given its feeble amateur rendering , everyone insisted that it was too good to be lost forever , and that the Royal Academy of Music must now have the manuscript in order to give the really first-rate performance it merited to it .
ck08.59.2	post-adv	But then , after the little operetta had been given its feeble amateur rendering , everyone insisted that it was too good to be lost forever , and that the Royal Academy of Music in order to give it the really first-rate performance it merited must now have the manuscript .
ck08.64.0	ref	Every woman has had the experience of saying no when she meant yes , and saying yes when she meant no .
ck08.64.1	post-adv	Every woman has had the experience of when she meant yes saying no , and saying yes when she meant no .
ck08.64.2	post-adv	Every woman has had the experience of when she meant no saying no when she meant yes , and saying yes .
ck08.65.0	ref	Rousseau had to admit that though he could n't agree to a public performance , he would indeed , just for his own private satisfaction , dearly love to know how his work would sound when done by professional musicians and by trained voices .
ck08.65.1	pre-adv	Rousseau had to admit that he would indeed , just for his own private satisfaction , dearly love to know how his work would sound when done by professional musicians and by trained voices , though he could n't agree to a public performance .
ck08.66.0	ref	`` I 'd simply like to know if it is as good as you kind people seem to think '' , he said .
ck08.66.1	quote	`` I 'd simply like to know if it is as good as you kind people seem to think '' , said he .
ck08.80.0	ref	Afraid at one and the same time that his work might be turned down -- which would be a blow to his pride even though no one knew he was the author -- and that the work would be accepted , and then that his violent feelings in the matter would certainly betray how deeply concerned he was in spite of himself .
ck08.80.1	post-adv	Afraid at one and the same time that his work might be turned down -- which even though no one knew he was the author would be a blow to his pride -- and that the work would be accepted , and then that his violent feelings in the matter would certainly betray how deeply concerned he was in spite of himself .
ck08.83.0	ref	All these emotions were screwed up to new heights when , after acceptance and the first rehearsals , there ensued such a buzz of excitement among Parisian music lovers that Duclos had to come running to Rousseau to inform him that the news had reached the superintendent of the King 's amusements , and that he was now demanding that the work be offered first at the royal summer palace of Fontainebleau .
ck08.83.1	post-adv	All these emotions when , after acceptance and the first rehearsals , there ensued such a buzz of excitement among Parisian music lovers that Duclos had to come running to Rousseau to inform him that the news had reached the superintendent of the King 's amusements , and that he was now demanding that the work be offered first at the royal summer palace of Fontainebleau were screwed up to new heights .
ck08.92.0	ref	Why had not this success come to him before he had plunged into his Discourse , and before he had committed himself to a life of austerity and denial ?
ck08.92.1	post-adv	Why before he had plunged into his Discourse , and before he had committed himself to a life of austerity and denial had not this success come to him ?
ck08.93.0	ref	Now , when everything was opening up to him -- even the court of Louis 15 ! he had to play a role of self-effacement .
ck08.93.1	pre-adv	Now he had to play a role of self-effacement , when everything was opening up to him -- even the court of Louis 15 ! .
ck08.94.0	ref	Back and forth Duclos had to go , between M. De Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke D'Aumont and Jean Jacques again , as his little operetta , The Village Soothsayer , though still unperformed , took on ever more importance .
ck08.94.1	post-adv	As his little operetta , The Village Soothsayer , though still unperformed , took on ever more importance , back and forth Duclos had to go , between M. De Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke D'Aumont and Jean Jacques again .
ck08.94.2	pre-adv	Back and forth Duclos had to go , between M. De Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke D'Aumont and Jean Jacques again , as his little operetta , The Village Soothsayer took on ever more importance , though still unperformed .
ck08.94.3	post-adj2	Back and forth Duclos had to go , again between M. De Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke D'Aumont and Jean Jacques , as his little operetta , The Village Soothsayer , though still unperformed , took on ever more importance .
ck08.99.0	ref	And listening to such a conversation one morning while taking a cup of chocolate in a cafe , Rousseau found himself bathed in perspiration , trembling lest his authorship become known , and at the same time dreaming of the startling effect he would make if he should proclaim himself suddenly as the composer .
ck08.99.1	post-adv	And listening to such a conversation one morning while taking a cup of chocolate in a cafe , Rousseau found himself bathed in perspiration , trembling lest his authorship become known , and at the same time dreaming of the startling effect he if he should proclaim himself suddenly as the composer would make .
ck08.100.0	ref	He felt himself now , as he himself says in his Confessions , at a crucial point of his life .
ck08.100.1	post-adv	As he himself says in his Confessions , he felt himself now at a crucial point of his life .
ck08.100.2	post-adj2	He felt himself at a crucial point of his life , as he himself says in his Confessions , now .
ck08.101.0	ref	And that was why , on the day of the performance , when a carriage from the royal stables called to take him to the palace , he did not bother to shave .
ck08.101.1	pre-adv	And that was why , on the day of the performance he did not bother to shave , when a carriage from the royal stables called to take him to the palace .
ck08.104.0	ref	`` You ca n't go in that way '' ! They cried .
ck08.104.1	quote	`` You ca n't go in that way '' ! cried they .
ck08.107.0	ref	`` You have n't dressed for the occasion '' ! They pointed out to him .
ck08.107.1	quote	`` You have n't dressed for the occasion '' ! pointed they out to him .
ck08.108.0	ref	`` I 'm dressed as I always am '' , Rousseau said .
ck08.108.1	post-adv	`` I as I always am 'm dressed '' , Rousseau said .
ck08.114.0	ref	`` If they are here , then surely I have the right to be here '' , Rousseau said .
ck08.114.1	pre-adj2	`` If they are here , surely then I have the right to be here '' , Rousseau said .
ck08.114.2	quote	`` If they are here , then surely I have the right to be here '' , said Rousseau .
ck08.114.3	pre-adv	`` Then surely I have the right to be here , if they are here '' , Rousseau said .
ck08.122.0	ref	And those without beards would have stood out as not dressed for the occasion .
ck08.122.1	post-adv	And those without beards would as not dressed for the occasion have stood out .
ck08.127.0	ref	Now , if you do n't mind , I should like to hear my own piece performed '' .
ck08.127.1	pre-adv	Now I should like to hear my own piece performed , if you do n't mind '' .
ck08.128.0	ref	But of course behind his boldness he did n't feel bold at all .
ck08.128.1	pre-adj2	But behind his boldness of course he did n't feel bold at all .
ck08.132.0	ref	Could he walk out in the midst of his piece ?
ck08.132.1	post-adj2	Could he walk in the midst of his piece out ?
ck09.1.0	ref	It was the first time any of us had laughed since the morning began .
ck09.1.1	post-adv	It was the first time any of us since the morning began had laughed .
ck09.5.0	ref	We heard him before he ever showed , and we heard him yelling after he was out of sight .
ck09.5.1	post-adv	Before he ever showed we heard him , and we heard him yelling after he was out of sight .
ck09.5.2	post-adv	We heard him before he ever showed , and after he was out of sight we heard him yelling .
ck09.8.0	ref	I have observed that being up on a horse changes the whole character of a man , and when a very small man is up on a saddle , he 'd like as not prefer to eat his meals there .
ck09.8.1	pre-adv	I have observed that being up on a horse changes the whole character of a man , and he 'd like as not prefer to eat his meals there , when a very small man is up on a saddle .
ck09.10.0	ref	As for this rider , I never saw him before or afterwards and never saw him dismounted , so whether he stood tall or short in his shoes , I ca n't say ; but I do know that he gave the day tone and distinction .
ck09.10.1	dat-np-np	As for this rider , I never saw him before or afterwards and never saw him dismounted , so whether he stood tall or short in his shoes , I ca n't say ; but I do know that he gave tone and distinction to the day .
ck09.12.0	ref	We came down off the wall as if he had toppled all of us , and we crouched behind it .
ck09.12.1	post-adv	As if he had toppled all of us we came down off the wall , and we crouched behind it .
ck09.13.0	ref	I have heard people talk with contempt about the British regulars , but that only proves that a lot of people talk about things of which they are deplorably ignorant .
ck09.13.1	post-adj2	I have heard people talk about the British regulars with contempt , but that only proves that a lot of people talk about things of which they are deplorably ignorant .
ck09.14.0	ref	Whatever we felt about the redcoats , we respected them in terms of their trade , which was killing ; and I know that I , myself , was nauseated with apprehension and fear and that my hands were soaking wet where they held my gun .
ck09.14.1	pre-adv	We respected them in terms of their trade , which was killing , whatever we felt about the redcoats ; and I know that I , myself , was nauseated with apprehension and fear and that my hands were soaking wet where they held my gun .
ck09.17.0	ref	I put a lot more trust in my two legs than in the gun , because the most important thing I had learned about war was that you could run away and survive to talk about it .
ck09.17.1	post-adv	Because the most important thing I had learned about war was that you could run away and survive to talk about it , I put a lot more trust in my two legs than in the gun .
ck09.19.0	ref	I do n't know whether he was after our rider , who had gone by a minute before , or whether he was simply scouting conditions ; but when he passed us by , a musket roared , and he reared his horse , swung it around , and began to whip it back in the direction from which he had come .
ck09.19.1	pre-adv	I do n't know whether he was after our rider , who had gone by a minute before , or whether he was simply scouting conditions ; but a musket roared , when he passed us by , and he reared his horse , swung it around , and began to whip it back in the direction from which he had come .
ck09.19.2	post-adj2	I do n't know whether he was after our rider , who had gone a minute before by , or whether he was simply scouting conditions ; but when he passed us by , a musket roared , and he reared his horse , swung it around , and began to whip it back in the direction from which he had come .
ck09.23.0	ref	Half crazed by the weight dragging , the dust , and the heat , the horse leaped our wall , dashing out the rider 's brains against it , and leaving him lying there among us -- while the horse crashed away through the brush .
ck09.23.1	post-adv	Half crazed by the weight dragging , the dust , and the heat , the horse leaped our wall , dashing out the rider 's brains against it , and leaving -- while the horse crashed away through the brush -- him lying there among us .
ck09.26.0	ref	I must state that the faster things happened , the slower they happened ; the passage and rhythm of time changed , and when I remember back to what happened then , each event is a separate and frozen incident .
ck09.26.1	pre-adj2	I must state that the slower , the faster things happened they happened ; the passage and rhythm of time changed , and when I remember back to what happened then , each event is a separate and frozen incident .
ck09.26.2	pre-adv	I must state that the faster things happened , the slower they happened ; the passage and rhythm of time changed , and each event is a separate and frozen incident , when I remember back to what happened then .
ck09.26.3	post-adj2	I must state that the faster things happened , the slower they happened ; the passage and rhythm of time changed , and when I remember to what happened then back , each event is a separate and frozen incident .
ck09.36.0	ref	The front of their column had already passed us , when another officer came riding down the side of the road , not five paces from where we were .
ck09.36.1	post-adv	The front of their column , when another officer came riding down the side of the road , not five paces from where we were , had already passed us .
ck09.41.0	ref	I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked back into my shoulder with the force of an angry mule ; and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet .
ck09.41.1	pre-adv	I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked back into my shoulder with the force of an angry mule ; and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that it was not enough , if I had passed water before , for my pants were soaking wet .
ck09.41.2	post-adj3	I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked into my shoulder back with the force of an angry mule ; and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet .
ck09.41.3	post-adj3	I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked with the force of an angry mule into my shoulder back ; and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet .
ck09.41.4	post-adj3	I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked back with the force of an angry mule into my shoulder ; and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet .
ck09.41.5	post-adj3	I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked with the force of an angry mule back into my shoulder ; and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet .
ck09.41.6	post-adj3	I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked into my shoulder with the force of an angry mule back ; and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet .
ck09.46.0	ref	We tumbled to a stop in Deacon Gordon 's cow hole , a low-lying bit of pasture with a muddy pool of water in its middle .
ck09.46.1	post-adj2	We tumbled in Deacon Gordon 's cow hole , a low-lying bit of pasture with a muddy pool of water in its middle to a stop .
ck09.47.0	ref	A dozen cows mooed sadly and regarded us as if we were insane , as perhaps we were at that moment , with the crazy excitement of our first encounter , the yelling and shooting still continuing up at the road , and the thirst of some of the men , which was so great that they waded into the muddy water and scooped up handfuls of it .
ck09.47.1	post-adv	A dozen cows as if we were insane , as perhaps we were at that moment , with the crazy excitement of our first encounter , the yelling and shooting still continuing up at the road , and the thirst of some of the men , which was so great that they waded into the muddy water and scooped up handfuls of it mooed sadly and regarded us .
ck09.48.0	ref	Isaac Pitt , one of the men from Lincoln , had taken a musket ball in his belly ; and though he had found the strength to run with us , now he collapsed and lay on the ground , dying , the Reverend holding his head and wiping his hot brow .
ck09.48.1	pre-adv	Isaac Pitt , one of the men from Lincoln , had taken a musket ball in his belly ; and now he collapsed and lay on the ground , dying , the Reverend holding his head and wiping his hot brow , though he had found the strength to run with us .
ck09.50.0	ref	I know that I myself felt that it was a mortal shame for a man to be torn open by a British musket ball , as Isaac had been , yet I also felt relieved and lucky that it had been him and not myself .
ck09.50.1	post-adv	I know that I myself felt that it was a mortal shame for a man to , as Isaac had been , be torn open by a British musket ball , yet I also felt relieved and lucky that it had been him and not myself .
ck09.50.2	post-adj2	I know that I myself felt that it was a mortal shame for a man to be torn by a British musket ball open , as Isaac had been , yet I also felt relieved and lucky that it had been him and not myself .
ck09.52.0	ref	Meanwhile , I reloaded my gun , as the other men were doing .
ck09.52.1	post-adv	As the other men were doing , meanwhile , I reloaded my gun .
ck09.56.0	ref	I did n't offer any advice , but I certainly did not want to go back to where the officer lay with his brains dashed out .
ck09.56.1	post-adv	I did n't offer any advice , but I certainly did not want to go back to where with his brains dashed out the officer lay .
ck09.56.2	post-adj2	I did n't offer any advice , but I certainly did not want to go to where the officer lay with his brains dashed out back .
ck09.57.0	ref	Someone said that while we were standing here and arguing about it , the British would be gone ; but Cousin Simmons said he had watched them marching west early in the morning , and moving at a much brisker pace it had still taken half an hour for their column to pass , what with the narrowness of the road and their baggage and ammunition carts .
ck09.57.1	pre-adv	Someone said that the British would be gone , while we were standing here and arguing about it ; but Cousin Simmons said he had watched them marching west early in the morning , and moving at a much brisker pace it had still taken half an hour for their column to pass , what with the narrowness of the road and their baggage and ammunition carts .
ck09.58.0	ref	While this was being discussed , we saw the militia to the west of us fanning out and breaking into little clusters of two and three men as they approached the road .
ck09.58.1	post-adv	While this was being discussed , we saw as they approached the road the militia to the west of us fanning out and breaking into little clusters of two and three men .
ck09.58.2	pre-adv	We saw the militia to the west of us fanning out and breaking into little clusters of two and three men as they approached the road , while this was being discussed .
ck09.59.0	ref	It was the opinion of some of us that these must be part of the Committeemen who had been in the Battle of the North Bridge , which entitled them to a sort of veteran status , and we felt that if they employed this tactic , it was likely enough the best one .
ck09.59.1	pre-adv	It was the opinion of some of us that these must be part of the Committeemen who had been in the Battle of the North Bridge , which entitled them to a sort of veteran status , and we felt that it was likely enough the best one , if they employed this tactic .
ck09.61.0	ref	If we cluster together , the redcoats can make an advantage out of it , but there 's not a blessed thing they can do with two or three of us except chase us , and we can outrun them '' .
ck09.61.1	pre-adv	The redcoats can make an advantage out of it , if we cluster together , but there 's not a blessed thing they can do with two or three of us except chase us , and we can outrun them '' .
ck09.63.0	ref	Cousin Joshua Dover decided to remain with the Reverend and poor Isaac Pitt until life passed away -- and he was hurt so badly he did not seem for long in this world .
ck09.63.1	post-adv	Cousin Joshua Dover decided until life passed away to remain with the Reverend and poor Isaac Pitt -- and he was hurt so badly he did not seem for long in this world .
ck09.64.0	ref	I went off with Cousin Simmons , who maintained that if he did n't see to me , he did n't know who would .
ck09.64.1	pre-adv	I went off with Cousin Simmons , who maintained that he did n't know who would , if he did n't see to me .
ck09.66.0	ref	`` I learned that now '' , I said .
ck09.66.1	quote	`` I learned that now '' , said I .
ck09.67.0	ref	We ran east for about half a mile before we turned back to the road , panting from the effort and soaked with sweat .
ck09.67.1	post-adv	Before we turned back to the road , panting from the effort and soaked with sweat we ran east for about half a mile .
ck09.67.2	post-adj2	We ran for about half a mile east before we turned back to the road , panting from the effort and soaked with sweat .
ck10.6.0	ref	In defiance , a chinless reprobate , Jake Camaret , marched down the aisle in St. Peter 's one Sunday morning , followed by one of the women from the Bordel , whose dress and walk plainly showed the lack of any shame .
ck10.6.1	post-adj2	In defiance , a chinless reprobate , Jake Camaret , marched one Sunday morning down the aisle in St. Peter 's , followed by one of the women from the Bordel , whose dress and walk plainly showed the lack of any shame .
ck10.11.0	ref	He finished the worship service as if there had been no brazen attempt to dishonor God and man .
ck10.11.1	post-adv	As if there had been no brazen attempt to dishonor God and man he finished the worship service .
ck10.12.0	ref	The next morning , as the clock struck nine , he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted that the couple would have to be punished if the Church was to be respected .
ck10.12.1	post-adv	The next morning , as the clock struck nine , he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted that the couple if the Church was to be respected would have to be punished .
ck10.12.2	pre-adv	The next morning he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted that the couple would have to be punished if the Church was to be respected , as the clock struck nine .
ck10.16.0	ref	`` That is the answer the ungodly will always make when the Church points its fingers at their sins .
ck10.16.1	post-adv	`` That is the answer the ungodly when the Church points its fingers at their sins will always make .
ck10.21.0	ref	Every eye was on him as he began to speak .
ck10.21.1	post-adv	As he began to speak every eye was on him .
ck10.23.0	ref	How can we have a good city unless we respect morality '' ?
ck10.23.1	post-adv	How unless we respect morality can we have a good city '' ?
ck10.31.0	ref	`` There can be no compromise when souls are in jeopardy '' .
ck10.31.1	post-adv	`` There when souls are in jeopardy can be no compromise '' .
ck10.32.0	ref	A week later the sentence of the Council was carried out : Jake Camaret and the woman were marched naked through the streets past a mocking populace .
ck10.32.1	post-adj2	A week later the sentence of the Council was carried out : Jake Camaret and the woman were marched naked past a mocking populace through the streets .
ck10.33.0	ref	Before them stalked the beadle , proclaiming as he went , `` Thus the Council deals with those who break its laws -- adulterers , thieves , murderers , and lewd persons .
ck10.33.1	post-adv	Before them stalked the beadle , as he went , proclaiming `` Thus the Council deals with those who break its laws -- adulterers , thieves , murderers , and lewd persons .
ck10.35.0	ref	John 's thoughts raced painfully into the past as he read the letter he had just received from his sister Mary .
ck10.35.1	post-adv	As he read the letter he had just received from his sister Mary John 's thoughts raced painfully into the past .
ck10.35.2	post-adj2	John 's thoughts raced into the past painfully as he read the letter he had just received from his sister Mary .
ck10.36.0	ref	Charles had died two weeks before , in early November , without being reconciled to the Church .
ck10.36.1	post-adj3	Charles had died in early November , two weeks before , without being reconciled to the Church .
ck10.36.2	post-adj3	Charles had died without being reconciled to the Church , in early November , two weeks before .
ck10.36.3	post-adj3	Charles had died two weeks before , without being reconciled to the Church , in early November .
ck10.36.4	post-adj3	Charles had died , without being reconciled to the Church , two weeks before , in early November .
ck10.36.5	post-adj3	Charles had died in early November , without being reconciled to the Church , two weeks before .
ck10.37.0	ref	The canons , in a body , had tried to force him on his deathbed to let them give him the last rites of the Church , but he had died still proclaiming salvation by faith .
ck10.37.1	dat-np-np	The canons , in a body , had tried to force him on his deathbed to let them give the last rites of the Church to him , but he had died still proclaiming salvation by faith .
ck10.38.0	ref	Burial had taken place at night in the ground at the public crossroads under the gibbet , so that his enemies could not find his body and have it dug up and burned .
ck10.38.1	post-adv	Burial , so that his enemies could not find his body and have it dug up and burned , had taken place at night in the ground at the public crossroads under the gibbet .
ck10.38.2	post-adj2	Burial had taken place in the ground at the public crossroads under the gibbet at night , so that his enemies could not find his body and have it dug up and burned .
ck10.41.0	ref	The blue-draped Virgin was still there , but no one knelt before her now .
ck10.41.1	post-adj2	The blue-draped Virgin was there still , but no one knelt before her now .
ck10.42.0	ref	Not even Varnessa ; she , too , prayed only to God .
ck10.42.1	post-adj2	Not even Varnessa ; she , too , prayed to God only .
ck10.46.0	ref	The white-clad trees stood like specters in the February night .
ck10.46.1	post-adj2	The white-clad trees stood in the February night like specters .
ck10.47.0	ref	Snow buried the streets and covered the slanting rooftops , as John trudged toward St. Peter 's .
ck10.47.1	post-adv	As John trudged toward St. Peter 's , snow buried the streets and covered the slanting rooftops .
ck10.49.0	ref	The sharp wind slapped at him and his feet felt like ice as the snow penetrated the holes of his shoes , his only ones , now patched with folded parchment .
ck10.49.1	post-adv	The sharp wind slapped at him and as the snow penetrated the holes of his shoes , his only ones , now patched with folded parchment his feet felt like ice .
ck10.50.0	ref	The city had recently given him a small salary , but it was not enough to supply even necessities .
ck10.50.1	dat-np-np	The city had recently given a small salary to him , but it was not enough to supply even necessities .
ck10.51.0	ref	As he neared the square , a round figure muffled in a long , black cape whisked by .
ck10.51.1	pre-adv	A round figure muffled in a long , black cape whisked by , as he neared the square .
ck10.57.0	ref	Underneath the big one , in the silent moonlight , lay a dead pigeon , and on the smaller bell , the Clemence , two gray and white birds slept huddled together in the cold winter air .
ck10.57.1	pre-adj2	In the silent moonlight , underneath the big one , lay a dead pigeon , and on the smaller bell , the Clemence , two gray and white birds slept huddled together in the cold winter air .
ck10.57.2	post-adj2	Underneath the big one , in the silent moonlight , lay a dead pigeon , and on the smaller bell , the Clemence , two gray and white birds slept huddled in the cold winter air together .
ck10.60.0	ref	Below the moon-splashed world rolled away to insurmountable white peaks ; above him the deep blue sky glittered with stars .
ck10.60.1	post-adj2	Below the moon-splashed world rolled to insurmountable white peaks away ; above him the deep blue sky glittered with stars .
ck10.68.0	ref	Loneliness tore through him like a physical pain whenever he thought of Peter Robert , Nerien , Nicholas Cop , Martin Bucer , and even the compromising Louis Du Tillet .
ck10.68.1	post-adv	Whenever he thought of Peter Robert , Nerien , Nicholas Cop , Martin Bucer , and even the compromising Louis Du Tillet loneliness tore through him like a physical pain .
ck10.68.2	post-adj2	Loneliness tore like a physical pain through him whenever he thought of Peter Robert , Nerien , Nicholas Cop , Martin Bucer , and even the compromising Louis Du Tillet .
ck10.70.0	ref	Letters came regularly from Nerien , Nicholas , and Martin .
ck10.70.1	post-adj2	Letters came from Nerien , Nicholas , and Martin regularly .
ck10.76.0	ref	Geneva , instead of becoming the City of God , as John had dreamed , had in the two years since he had been there , continued to be a godless place where all manner of vice flourished .
ck10.76.1	post-adv	Geneva , instead of , as John had dreamed , becoming the City of God had in the two years since he had been there , continued to be a godless place where all manner of vice flourished .
ck10.77.0	ref	Refugees poured in , signing the Confession and rules in order to remain , and then disregarding them .
ck10.77.1	post-adv	Refugees poured in , in order to remain signing the Confession and rules , and then disregarding them .
ck10.84.0	ref	Tears burned behind his eyes as he prayed and meditated tonight .
ck10.84.1	post-adv	As he prayed and meditated tonight tears burned behind his eyes .
ck10.85.0	ref	Unless the confusion cleared , he would not be coming here much longer .
ck10.85.1	pre-adv	He would not be coming here much longer , unless the confusion cleared .
ck10.85.2	post-adj2	Unless the confusion cleared , he would not be coming much longer here .
ck10.88.0	ref	Faint at first , the tapping grew until it sounded loud against the wind .
ck10.88.1	post-adv	Until it sounded loud against the wind faint at first , the tapping grew .
ck10.90.0	ref	What is he doing here at this hour ?
ck10.90.1	post-adj2	What is he doing at this hour here ?
ck10.97.0	ref	Slowly , like a man grown old , he took Eli 's hand and led him below to the tower study , guiding him to a chair beside the little hearth where a fire still burned .
ck10.97.1	pre-adv	Slowly he took Eli 's hand and led him below to the tower study , guiding him to a chair beside the little hearth where a fire still burned , like a man grown old .
ck10.97.2	post-adj2	Slowly , like a man grown old , he took Eli 's hand and led him to the tower study below , guiding him to a chair beside the little hearth where a fire still burned .
ck10.99.0	ref	`` Monsieur Favre just paid me a visit .
ck10.99.1	dat-np-np	`` Monsieur Favre just paid a visit to me .
ck10.103.0	ref	You know the law : if you lose the debate after accepting a challenge , you will be banished '' !
ck10.103.1	pre-adv	You know the law : you will be banished , if you lose the debate after accepting a challenge '' !
ck10.111.0	ref	But Michael Sept had unmasked him , revealing he had never been a bishop , but was an Anabaptist , afraid to state his faith , because he knew John Calvin had written a book against their belief that the soul slept after death .
ck10.111.1	post-adv	But Michael Sept had unmasked him , revealing he had never been a bishop , but was an Anabaptist , afraid , because he knew John Calvin had written a book against their belief that the soul slept after death , to state his faith .
ck10.112.0	ref	So John had refused to agree to his appointment as a preacher , and now Caroli sought revenge .
ck10.112.1	post-adj2	So John had refused to agree as a preacher to his appointment , and now Caroli sought revenge .
ck10.114.0	ref	`` If William agrees , we should insist on a public debate '' , he said at length .
ck10.114.1	quote	`` If William agrees , we should insist on a public debate '' , said he at length .
ck10.114.2	pre-adv	`` We should insist on a public debate , if William agrees '' , he said at length .
ck10.116.0	ref	Bern demands that the Lord 's Supper be administered here as it used to be , with unleavened bread .
ck10.116.1	post-adv	Bern demands that the Lord 's Supper , as it used to be , be administered here with unleavened bread .
ck10.116.2	post-adj2	Bern demands that the Lord 's Supper be administered with unleavened bread as it used to be , here .
ck10.117.0	ref	Furthermore , Bern decrees that we must do as we are ordered by the Council , preach only the word of God and stop meddling in politics '' !
ck10.117.1	post-adv	Furthermore , Bern decrees that we must as we are ordered by the Council do , preach only the word of God and stop meddling in politics '' !
ck10.118.0	ref	`` It was always the spirit with Christ ; matters such as leavened or unleavened bread are inconsequential .
ck10.118.1	post-adj2	`` It was with Christ the spirit always ; matters such as leavened or unleavened bread are inconsequential .
ck10.122.0	ref	`` Monsieur Favre indicated that if I would co-operate , after you and William are banished , following the debate , I will be given a place of influence '' .
ck10.122.1	pre-adv	`` Monsieur Favre indicated that after you and William are banished , following the debate , I will be given a place of influence , if I would co-operate '' .
ck10.122.2	pre-adv	`` Monsieur Favre indicated that if I would co-operate I will be given a place of influence , after you and William are banished , following the debate '' .
ck10.125.0	ref	The following morning , as John entered the Place Molard on his way to visit a sick refugee , he had a premonition of danger .
ck10.125.1	pre-adv	The following morning he had a premonition of danger , as John entered the Place Molard on his way to visit a sick refugee .
ck10.126.0	ref	Then suddenly a group of men and dogs circled him .
ck10.126.1	pre-adj2	Suddenly then a group of men and dogs circled him .
ck10.127.0	ref	He wanted to run , but he knew that if he did , he would be lost .
ck10.127.1	pre-adv	He wanted to run , but he knew that he would be lost , if he did .
ck10.138.0	ref	When he felt the side of his head , his fingers came away covered with blood .
ck10.138.1	pre-adv	His fingers came away covered with blood , when he felt the side of his head .
ck10.139.0	ref	Before he could duck , another stone struck him .
ck10.139.1	pre-adv	Another stone struck him , before he could duck .
ck10.142.0	ref	`` We have taught him a lesson '' .
ck10.142.1	dat-np-np	`` We have taught a lesson to him '' .
ck10.144.0	ref	Fists pummeled him as he staggered forward .
ck10.144.1	post-adv	As he staggered forward fists pummeled him .
ck10.145.0	ref	Then he slipped and went down on his hands and knees in the melting snow .
ck10.145.1	post-adj2	Then he slipped and went in the melting snow down on his hands and knees .
ck11.4.0	ref	Adam watched his own hands make the caressing , anxious movement that , when rain falls and nobody comes , and ruin draws close like a cat rubbing against the ankles , has been the ritual of stall vendors , forever .
ck11.4.1	post-adv	Adam watched his own hands make the caressing , anxious movement that , when rain falls and nobody comes , and like a cat rubbing against the ankles ruin draws close , has been the ritual of stall vendors , forever .
ck11.4.2	pre-adv	Adam watched his own hands make the caressing , anxious movement that , has been the ritual of stall vendors , forever , when rain falls and nobody comes , and ruin draws close like a cat rubbing against the ankles .
ck11.11.0	ref	He wondered what expression , as he made that gesture , was on his face .
ck11.11.1	pre-adv	He wondered what expression , was on his face , as he made that gesture .
ck11.13.0	ref	But there was no need , he remembered , for his hand to reach out , for his face to show concern or stoicism .
ck11.13.1	post-adv	For his hand to reach out , but there was no need , he remembered for his face to show concern or stoicism .
ck11.14.0	ref	It was nothing to him if rain fell and nobody came .
ck11.14.1	post-adv	If rain fell and nobody came it was nothing to him .
ck11.17.0	ref	Or was he now taking the role -- the gesture and the suffering -- because it was the only way to affirm his history and identity in the torpid , befogged loneliness of this land .
ck11.17.1	post-adv	Because it was the only way to affirm his history and identity in the torpid , befogged loneliness of this land or was he now taking the role -- the gesture and the suffering .
ck11.19.0	ref	He looked out of the tent at the company street .
ck11.19.1	post-adj2	He looked at the company street out of the tent .
ck11.23.0	ref	In this heavy air , however , that device did not seem to help .
ck11.23.1	pre-adj2	However , in this heavy air , that device did not seem to help .
ck11.30.0	ref	When they stood about his tent , chaffing each other , exchanging their obscenities , cursing command or weather , he had studied their faces .
ck11.30.1	pre-adv	He had studied their faces , when they stood about his tent , chaffing each other , exchanging their obscenities , cursing command or weather .
ck11.36.0	ref	He thought that if once , only once , he could talk with Simms Purdew , something about his own life , and all life , would be clear and simple .
ck11.36.1	pre-adj2	He thought that if only once , once , he could talk with Simms Purdew , something about his own life , and all life , would be clear and simple .
ck11.36.2	pre-adv	He thought that something about his own life , and all life , would be clear and simple , if once , only once , he could talk with Simms Purdew .
ck11.37.0	ref	If Simms Purdew would turn to him and say : `` Adam , you know when I was a boy , it was a funny thing happened .
ck11.37.1	pre-adv	If Simms Purdew would turn to him and say : `` Adam , you know it was a funny thing happened , when I was a boy .
ck11.38.0	ref	Lemme tell you now '' -- If only Simms Purdew could do that , whatever the thing he remembered and told .
ck11.38.1	post-adv	Lemme tell you now '' -- If only Simms Purdew , whatever the thing he remembered and told , could do that .
ck11.42.0	ref	He saw the figure of a man in a poncho coming up the company street , with an armful of wood .
ck11.42.1	post-adj2	He saw the figure of a man in a poncho coming with an armful of wood , up the company street .
ck11.46.0	ref	It gave the rubberized fabric a dull gleam , like metal .
ck11.46.1	dat-np-np	It gave a dull gleam , like metal to the rubberized fabric .
ck11.51.0	ref	With enormous interest , Adam watched his hands as they touched and shifted the objects on the board directly before him .
ck11.51.1	post-adv	As they touched and shifted the objects on the board directly before him with enormous interest , Adam watched his hands .
ck11.57.0	ref	The gray face stared straight ahead in the drizzle .
ck11.57.1	post-adj2	The gray face stared in the drizzle straight ahead .
ck11.59.0	ref	The figure was close enough now for him to see the nose twitching to dislodge the drop clinging there .
ck11.59.1	post-adj2	The figure was now close enough for him to see the nose twitching to dislodge the drop clinging there .
ck11.65.0	ref	He recognized her because she was the one who , in a winter twilight , on the edge of camp , had once stopped him and reached down her hand to touch his fly .
ck11.65.1	post-adv	Because she was the one who , in a winter twilight , on the edge of camp , had once stopped him and reached down her hand to touch his fly he recognized her .
ck11.70.0	ref	Looking down the street after her , Adam saw that she had again stopped and again removed one hand from the basket .
ck11.70.1	post-adj2	Looking after her down the street , Adam saw that she had again stopped and again removed one hand from the basket .
ck11.73.0	ref	The words ran crazily in his head : Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain .
ck11.73.1	post-adj2	The words ran in his head crazily : Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain .
ck11.78.0	ref	He felt trapped in that pattern , in the repetition .
ck11.78.1	post-adj2	He felt trapped in the repetition , in that pattern .
ck11.83.0	ref	When he had stored his stock in the great oak chest , locked the two big hasps and secured the additional chain , tied the fly of the tent , and picked up the cash box , he moved up the darkening street .
ck11.83.1	pre-adv	He moved up the darkening street , when he had stored his stock in the great oak chest , locked the two big hasps and secured the additional chain , tied the fly of the tent , and picked up the cash box .
ck11.84.0	ref	He would consign the cash box into the hands of Jed Hawksworth , then stand by while his employer checked the contents and the list of items sold .
ck11.84.1	post-adv	He would while his employer checked the contents and the list of items sold consign the cash box into the hands of Jed Hawksworth , then stand by .
ck11.88.0	ref	Far off , in the dusk , he heard voices singing , muffled but strong .
ck11.88.1	pre-adj2	In the dusk , far off , he heard voices singing , muffled but strong .
ck11.95.0	ref	That other Jew , a young man too , had left that greatcoat behind , in a rich house , and marched away .
ck11.95.1	post-adj2	That other Jew , a young man too , had left that greatcoat in a rich house , behind , and marched away .
ck11.96.0	ref	He had crossed the river which now , beyond the woods yonder , was sliding darkly under the mist .
ck11.96.1	post-adj2	He had crossed the river which now , beyond the woods yonder , was sliding under the mist darkly .
ck11.99.0	ref	What had that man , that other young Jew , felt as he stood in the twilight and heard other men , far away , singing together ?
ck11.99.1	post-adv	What as he stood in the twilight and heard other men , far away , singing together had that man , that other young Jew , felt ?
ck11.102.0	ref	He thought of Simms Purdew snoring on his bunk while Pullen James crouched by the hearth , skirmishing an undershirt for lice , and a wet log sizzled .
ck11.102.1	post-adv	He thought of while Pullen James crouched by the hearth , skirmishing an undershirt for lice , and a wet log sizzled Simms Purdew snoring on his bunk .
ck11.116.0	ref	`` Gon na give Ole Buckra all his money '' ? Mose asked softly .
ck11.116.1	dat-np-np	`` Gon na give all his money to Ole Buckra '' ? Mose asked softly .
ck11.130.0	ref	It is the same ole same , tell me its name .
ck11.130.1	dat-np-np	It is the same ole same , tell its name to me .
ck11.134.0	ref	That po'k , it was so full of skippers it would jump and run and not come when you say , hoo-pig .
ck11.134.1	post-adv	That po'k , it was so full of skippers it would when you say , hoo-pig jump and run and not come .
ck11.135.0	ref	Had to put my foot on it to hole it down while I cut it up fer the lob-scuse '' .
ck11.135.1	post-adv	Had to put my foot on it while I cut it up fer the lob-scuse to hole it down '' .
ck12.2.0	ref	Once , they were at Easthampton for the summer -LRB- again , Fritzie said , a good place , even though they were being robbed -RRB- .
ck12.2.1	post-adj2	Once , they were for the summer at Easthampton -LRB- again , Fritzie said , a good place , even though they were being robbed -RRB- .
ck12.6.0	ref	`` Y'all wanna walk -- walk '' , he said .
ck12.6.1	quote	`` Y'all wanna walk -- walk '' , said he .
ck12.7.0	ref	Then , gently , he shoved her behind toward Laura .
ck12.7.1	pre-adj2	Gently , then , he shoved her behind toward Laura .
ck12.13.0	ref	Amy had to be safe , had to come back to them -- if only to reap that share of life 's experiences that were her due , if only to give her parents another chance to do better by her .
ck12.13.1	dat-np-np	Amy had to be safe , had to come back to them -- if only to reap that share of life 's experiences that were her due , if only to give another chance to do better by her to her parents .
ck12.13.2	post-adv	If only to reap that share of life 's experiences that were her due -- Amy had to be safe , had to come back to them if only to give her parents another chance to do better by her .
ck12.13.3	post-adv	If only to give her parents another chance to do better by her , Amy had to be safe , had to come back to them -- if only to reap that share of life 's experiences that were her due .
ck12.13.4	post-adj2	Amy had to be safe , had to come to them back -- if only to reap that share of life 's experiences that were her due , if only to give her parents another chance to do better by her .
ck12.15.0	ref	The comfort was short-lived , yet she found herself returning to the assurance whenever her imagination forced images on her too awful to contemplate without the prop of illusion .
ck12.15.1	post-adv	The comfort was short-lived , yet she found whenever her imagination forced images on her too awful to contemplate without the prop of illusion herself returning to the assurance .
ck12.21.0	ref	`` Y'all should have let me take that money out '' , Andrus said .
ck12.21.1	quote	`` Y'all should have let me take that money out '' , said Andrus .
ck12.30.0	ref	It could continue this way , hitting 106 and more in the Valley , Joe McFeeley knew , into October .
ck12.30.1	post-adj2	It could continue this way , hitting 106 and more into October , Joe McFeeley knew , in the Valley .
ck12.32.0	ref	Both had been up since 7:00 -- Irv on the early-morning watch , McFeeley unable to sleep during his four-hour relief .
ck12.32.1	post-adj2	Both had been since 7:00 up -- Irv on the early-morning watch , McFeeley unable to sleep during his four-hour relief .
ck12.42.0	ref	After she had served the detectives coffee and toast -LRB- they politely declined eggs , uncomfortable about their tenancy -RRB- , she settled down with a morning newspaper and began reading the stock market quotations .
ck12.42.1	dat-np-np	After she had served coffee and toast to the detectives -LRB- they politely declined eggs , uncomfortable about their tenancy -RRB- , she settled down with a morning newspaper and began reading the stock market quotations .
ck12.42.2	pre-adv	-LRB- They politely declined eggs , uncomfortable about their tenancy -RRB- , she settled down with a morning newspaper and began reading the stock market quotations after she had served the detectives coffee and toast .
ck12.43.0	ref	While she was thus engaged , McFeeley questioned her about her whereabouts the previous day , any recollections she had of people hanging around , of overcurious delivery boys or repairmen , of strange cars cruising the neighborhood .
ck12.43.1	pre-adv	McFeeley questioned her about her whereabouts the previous day , any recollections she had of people hanging around , of overcurious delivery boys or repairmen , of strange cars cruising the neighborhood , while she was thus engaged .
ck12.47.0	ref	When the parents emerged from the bedroom a few minutes later , the maid greeted them quietly .
ck12.47.1	pre-adv	The maid greeted them quietly , when the parents emerged from the bedroom a few minutes later .
ck12.47.2	post-adj2	When the parents emerged a few minutes later from the bedroom , the maid greeted them quietly .
ck12.48.0	ref	`` I 'm awful sorry about what 's happened '' , Selena said .
ck12.48.1	quote	`` I 'm awful sorry about what 's happened '' , said Selena .
ck12.53.0	ref	Someone would have to remain in the office continually .
ck12.53.1	post-adj2	Someone would have to remain continually in the office .
ck12.55.0	ref	He wanted to take the mother to headquarters at once and start her on the mug file .
ck12.55.1	post-adj2	He wanted to take the mother at once to headquarters and start her on the mug file .
ck12.59.0	ref	The woman had the glassy look of an invalid , as if she had not slept at all .
ck12.59.1	post-adv	As if she had not slept at all , the woman had the glassy look of an invalid .
ck12.60.0	ref	`` Oh -- we managed '' , she said .
ck12.60.1	quote	`` Oh -- we managed '' , said she .
ck12.67.0	ref	`` Did n't occur to me my child would be kidnaped when I had it listed '' , Andrus muttered .
ck12.67.1	post-adv	`` When I had it listed did n't occur to me my child would be kidnaped '' , Andrus muttered .
ck12.67.2	quote	`` Did n't occur to me my child would be kidnaped when I had it listed '' , muttered Andrus .
ck12.68.0	ref	He settled on the sofa with his coffee , warming his hands on the cup , although the room was heavy with heat .
ck12.68.1	post-adv	He settled on the sofa with his coffee , although the room was heavy with heat , warming his hands on the cup .
ck12.68.2	post-adj2	He settled with his coffee on the sofa , warming his hands on the cup , although the room was heavy with heat .
ck12.74.0	ref	McFeeley told the parents he would escort them to police headquarters in a half hour .
ck12.74.1	post-adj2	McFeeley told the parents he would escort them in a half hour to police headquarters .
ck12.76.0	ref	He did not want to bring the Andruses to the station house too early -- Rheinholdt had summoned a press conference , and he did n't want them subjected to the reporters again .
ck12.76.1	post-adj2	He did not want to bring the Andruses too early to the station house -- Rheinholdt had summoned a press conference , and he did n't want them subjected to the reporters again .
ck12.78.0	ref	When the detective left , Andrus phoned his secretary to cancel his work and to advise the network to get a substitute director for his current project .
ck12.78.1	pre-adv	Andrus phoned his secretary to cancel his work and to advise the network to get a substitute director for his current project , when the detective left .
ck12.88.0	ref	And he ignored him , skirting the parked cars and walking up the path to the Skopas house .
ck12.88.1	post-adj2	And he ignored him , skirting the parked cars and walking to the Skopas house up the path .
ck12.89.0	ref	When McFeeley was halfway to the door , the proprietor emerged -- a mountainous , dark man , his head thick with resiny black hair , his eyes like two of the black olives he imported in boatloads .
ck12.89.1	pre-adv	The proprietor emerged , when McFeeley was halfway to the door -- a mountainous , dark man , his head thick with resiny black hair , his eyes like two of the black olives he imported in boatloads .
ck12.92.0	ref	Inside , as soon as Mr. Skopas had disclosed -- in a hoarse whisper -- the detective 's errand , his family gathered in a huddle , forming a mass of dark flesh on and around a brocaded sofa which stood at one side of a baroque fireplace .
ck12.92.1	pre-adj2	As soon as Mr. Skopas had disclosed -- in a hoarse whisper -- the detective 's errand , inside , his family gathered in a huddle , forming a mass of dark flesh on and around a brocaded sofa which stood at one side of a baroque fireplace .
ck12.94.0	ref	It was amazing how they had herded together for protection : an enormous matriarch in a quilted silk wrapper , rising from the breakfast table ; a gross boy in his teens , shuffling in from the kitchen with a sandwich in his hands ; a girl in her twenties , fat and sullen , descending the marble staircase ; then all four gathering on the sofa to face the inquisitor .
ck12.94.1	post-adj2	It was amazing how they had herded for protection together : an enormous matriarch in a quilted silk wrapper , rising from the breakfast table ; a gross boy in his teens , shuffling in from the kitchen with a sandwich in his hands ; a girl in her twenties , fat and sullen , descending the marble staircase ; then all four gathering on the sofa to face the inquisitor .
ck12.100.0	ref	He imagined they were the kind whose tax returns were never examined -LRB- if they were , they were never penalized -RRB- , whose children had no unhappy romances , whose names never knew scandal .
ck12.100.1	pre-adv	He imagined they were the kind whose tax returns were never examined -LRB- they were never penalized , if they were -RRB- , whose children had no unhappy romances , whose names never knew scandal .
ck12.101.0	ref	The equation was simple : wealth brought them happiness , and their united front to the world was their warning that they meant to keep everything they had , let no one in on the secrets .
ck12.101.1	dat-np-np	The equation was simple : wealth brought happiness to them , and their united front to the world was their warning that they meant to keep everything they had , let no one in on the secrets .
ck12.105.0	ref	All four remained impacted on the sofa until he had left .
ck12.105.1	post-adv	Until he had left all four remained impacted on the sofa .
ck12.106.0	ref	He had spoken to Mrs. Emerson the previous day .
ck12.106.1	post-adj2	He had spoken the previous day to Mrs. Emerson .
ck12.111.0	ref	When Joe identified himself , he nodded , unsmiling , and ushered him into a sedate living room .
ck12.111.1	pre-adv	He nodded , unsmiling , and ushered him into a sedate living room , when Joe identified himself .
ck12.116.0	ref	`` Funny thing '' , Mr. Kahler said , when they were seated , `` when I heard you ringing , I figured it was that guy down the block , Hausman '' .
ck12.116.1	pre-adv	`` Funny thing '' , Mr. Kahler said , when they were seated , I figured it was that guy down the block , Hausman `` when I heard you ringing '' .
ck12.121.0	ref	He would lay in wait in the garage , and when the terrier came scratching around , he 'd let fly with a cherry bomb .
ck12.121.1	pre-adv	He would lay in wait in the garage , and he 'd let fly with a cherry bomb , when the terrier came scratching around .
ck12.121.2	post-adj2	He would lay in the garage in wait , and when the terrier came scratching around , he 'd let fly with a cherry bomb .
ck12.122.0	ref	`` Scared the hell out of him '' , Kahler grinned .
ck12.122.1	quote	`` Scared the hell out of him '' , grinned Kahler .
ck12.123.0	ref	`` I hit him in the ass once '' .
ck12.123.1	post-adj2	`` I hit him once in the ass '' .
ck13.1.0	ref	In the dim underwater light they dressed and straightened up the room , and then they went across the hall to the kitchen .
ck13.1.1	post-adj2	In the dim underwater light they dressed and straightened up the room , and then they went to the kitchen across the hall .
ck13.9.0	ref	While she was settling the teacart , he went back across the hall to their bedroom , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar .
ck13.9.1	pre-adv	He went back across the hall to their bedroom , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar , while she was settling the teacart .
ck13.9.2	post-adj3	While she was settling the teacart , he went across the hall back to their bedroom , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar .
ck13.9.3	post-adj3	While she was settling the teacart , he went to their bedroom across the hall back , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar .
ck13.9.4	post-adj3	While she was settling the teacart , he went back to their bedroom across the hall , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar .
ck13.9.5	post-adj3	While she was settling the teacart , he went to their bedroom back across the hall , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar .
ck13.9.6	post-adj3	While she was settling the teacart , he went across the hall to their bedroom back , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar .
ck13.16.0	ref	Since ordinary breakfast-table conversation was impossible , it was at least something that they were able to offer Eugene the sugar bowl with their sugar in it , and the plate of bread and butter , and that Eugene could return the pitcher of hot milk to them handle first .
ck13.16.1	dat-np-np	Since ordinary breakfast-table conversation was impossible , it was at least something that they were able to offer the sugar bowl with their sugar in it , and the plate of bread and butter to Eugene , and that Eugene could return the pitcher of hot milk to them handle first .
ck13.16.2	pre-adv	It was at least something that they were able to offer Eugene the sugar bowl with their sugar in it , and the plate of bread and butter , and that Eugene could return the pitcher of hot milk to them handle first , since ordinary breakfast-table conversation was impossible .
ck13.18.0	ref	Stirring , he said : `` I am sorry that my work prevents me from doing anything with you today '' .
ck13.18.1	dat-np-np	Stirring , he said : `` I am sorry that my work prevents me from doing today with you to anything '' .
ck13.23.0	ref	Eugene was not entirely silent , or openly rude -- unless asking Harold to move to another chair and placing himself in the fauteuil that creaked so alarmingly was an act of rudeness .
ck13.23.1	post-adv	Unless asking Harold to move to another chair and placing himself in the fauteuil that creaked so alarmingly was an act of rudeness -- Eugene was not entirely silent , or openly rude .
ck13.30.0	ref	Eugene offered Harold his car , to use at any time he cared to , and when this offer was not accepted , the armchair creaked .
ck13.30.1	dat-np-np	Eugene offered his car , to use at any time he cared to to Harold , and when this offer was not accepted , the armchair creaked .
ck13.30.2	pre-adv	Eugene offered Harold his car , to use at any time he cared to , and the armchair creaked , when this offer was not accepted .
ck13.36.0	ref	At that moment the bathroom door flew open and Eugene came out , with his face lathered for shaving , and strode down the hall , tying the sash of his dressing gown as he went .
ck13.36.1	post-adv	At that moment the bathroom door flew open and Eugene , with his face lathered for shaving , came out , and strode down the hall , tying the sash of his dressing gown as he went .
ck13.36.2	post-adv	At that moment the bathroom door flew open and Eugene came out , with his face lathered for shaving , and strode down the hall , as he went tying the sash of his dressing gown .
ck13.38.0	ref	Between the telephone and the wall plug there was sixty feet of cord , and when the conversation came to an end , Eugene carried the instrument with him the whole length of the apartment , to his bathroom , where it rang three more times while he was shaving and in the tub .
ck13.38.1	dat-np-np	Between the telephone and the wall plug there was sixty feet of cord , and when the conversation came to an end , Eugene carried the whole length of the apartment with him to the instrument , to his bathroom , where it rang three more times while he was shaving and in the tub .
ck13.38.2	post-adv	Between the telephone and the wall plug there was sixty feet of cord , and when the conversation came to an end , Eugene carried the instrument with him the whole length of the apartment , to his bathroom , where while he was shaving and in the tub it rang three more times .
ck13.38.3	pre-adv	Between the telephone and the wall plug there was sixty feet of cord , and Eugene carried the instrument with him the whole length of the apartment , to his bathroom , where it rang three more times while he was shaving and in the tub , when the conversation came to an end .
ck13.39.0	ref	Before he left the apartment he knocked on their door and asked if there was anything he could do for them .
ck13.39.1	pre-adv	He knocked on their door and asked if there was anything he could do for them before he left the apartment .
ck13.41.0	ref	`` Sabine called a few minutes ago '' , Eugene said .
ck13.41.1	quote	`` Sabine called a few minutes ago '' , said Eugene .
ck13.42.0	ref	`` She wants you and Barbara to have dinner with her tomorrow night '' .
ck13.42.1	post-adj2	`` She wants you and Barbara to have dinner tomorrow night with her '' .
ck13.43.0	ref	He handed Harold a key to the front door , and cautioned him against leaving it unlocked while they were out of the apartment .
ck13.43.1	dat-np-np	He handed a key to the front door to Harold , and cautioned him against leaving it unlocked while they were out of the apartment .
ck13.43.2	post-adv	He handed Harold a key to the front door , and cautioned him against while they were out of the apartment leaving it unlocked .
ck13.44.0	ref	When enough time had elapsed so that there was little likelihood of his returning for something he had forgotten , Harold went out into the hall and stood looking into one room after another .
ck13.44.1	pre-adv	Harold went out into the hall and stood looking into one room after another , when enough time had elapsed so that there was little likelihood of his returning for something he had forgotten .
ck13.56.0	ref	With the metal shutters closed , the dining room was so dark that it seemed still night in there .
ck13.56.1	pre-adv	The dining room was so dark that it seemed still night in there , with the metal shutters closed .
ck13.56.2	post-adj2	With the metal shutters closed , the dining room was so dark that it seemed in there night still .
ck13.59.0	ref	Though , taken individually , the big rooms were , or seemed to be , square , the apartment as a whole formed a triangle .
ck13.59.1	pre-adv	The apartment as a whole formed a triangle , though , taken individually , the big rooms were , or seemed to be , square .
ck13.62.0	ref	Looking around slowly , he saw a marble fireplace , a desk , a low bookcase of mahogany with criss-crossed brass wire instead of glass panes in the doors .
ck13.62.1	post-adj2	Looking slowly around , he saw a marble fireplace , a desk , a low bookcase of mahogany with criss-crossed brass wire instead of glass panes in the doors .
ck13.70.0	ref	The titles he could read easily through the criss-crossed wires : works on theology , astral physics , history , biology , political science .
ck13.70.1	post-adj2	The titles he could read through the criss-crossed wires easily : works on theology , astral physics , history , biology , political science .
ck13.75.0	ref	The concierge called out to them as they were passing through the foyer .
ck13.75.1	post-adv	As they were passing through the foyer the concierge called out to them .
ck13.77.0	ref	The suitcases had come while they were out , and had been put in their room , the concierge said .
ck13.77.1	post-adv	The suitcases while they were out had come , and had been put in their room , the concierge said .
ck13.77.2	quote	The suitcases had come while they were out , and had been put in their room , said the concierge .
ck13.78.0	ref	He waited until they were inside the elevator and then said : `` Now what do we do '' ?
ck13.78.1	post-adv	He until they were inside the elevator waited and then said : `` Now what do we do '' ?
ck13.87.0	ref	They had lunch at a sidewalk cafe overlooking the intersection of two broad , busy , unpicturesque streets , and coming home they got lost in the Metro ; it took them over an hour to get back to the station where they should have changed , in order to take the line that went to the Place Redoute .
ck13.87.1	post-adv	They had lunch at a sidewalk cafe overlooking the intersection of two broad , busy , unpicturesque streets , and coming home they got lost in the Metro ; it took them over an hour to get back to the station where they should , in order to take the line that went to the Place Redoute , have changed .
ck13.92.0	ref	Instead , they went on down the hall to their room .
ck13.92.1	post-adj2	Instead , they went on to their room down the hall .
ck13.93.0	ref	`` Do you think he could be having an affair '' ? Barbara asked , as they heard the front door close .
ck13.93.1	post-adv	As they heard the front door close , `` do you think he could be having an affair '' ? Barbara asked .
ck13.99.0	ref	They went shopping in the neighborhood , and bought two loaves of bread with the ration coupons they had been given in Blois , and some cheese , and a dozen eggs , and a bag of oranges from a peddler in the Place Redoute -- the first oranges they had seen since they landed .
ck13.99.1	post-adv	They went shopping in the neighborhood , and bought two loaves of bread with the ration coupons they had been given in Blois , and some cheese , and a dozen eggs , and a bag of oranges from a peddler in the Place Redoute -- the first oranges they since they landed had seen .
ck13.101.0	ref	When they got home Harold was grateful for the stillness in the apartment , and thought how , under different circumstances , they might have stayed on here , in these old-fashioned , high-ceilinged rooms that reminded him of the Irelands ' apartment in the East Eighties .
ck13.101.1	pre-adv	Harold was grateful for the stillness in the apartment , and thought how , under different circumstances , they might have stayed on here , in these old-fashioned , high-ceilinged rooms that reminded him of the Irelands ' apartment in the East Eighties when they got home .
ck13.102.0	ref	They could have been perfectly happy here for ten whole days .
ck13.102.1	post-adj2	They could have been perfectly happy for ten whole days here .
ck13.103.0	ref	He went down the hall to Eugene 's bathroom , to turn on the hot-water heater , and on the side of the tub he saw a pair of blue wool swimming trunks .
ck13.103.1	post-adj2	He went to Eugene 's bathroom down the hall , to turn on the hot-water heater , and on the side of the tub he saw a pair of blue wool swimming trunks .
ck13.116.0	ref	But if he has time to go swimming , he had time to be with us '' .
ck13.116.1	pre-adv	But he had time to be with us , if he has time to go swimming '' .
ck13.117.0	ref	She looked at him in surprise .
ck13.117.1	post-adj2	She looked in surprise at him .
ck13.118.0	ref	`` I know '' , he said , reading her mind .
ck13.118.1	quote	`` I know '' , said , reading he her mind .
ck13.122.0	ref	Also , he was so nice when he was nice '' .
ck13.122.1	post-adv	When he was nice also , he was so nice '' .
ck13.131.0	ref	For instance -- what about all those people Harold Rhodes went toward unhesitatingly , as if this were the one moment they would ever have together , their one chance of knowing each other ?
ck13.131.1	post-adj2	For instance -- what about all those people Harold Rhodes went unhesitatingly toward , as if this were the one moment they would ever have together , their one chance of knowing each other ?
ck14.16.0	ref	Even though he would later be resurrected , he was at this moment dead indeed , the expression on his face reflecting what he had gone through on the cross .
ck14.16.1	pre-adv	He was at this moment dead indeed , the expression on his face reflecting what he had gone through on the cross , even though he would later be resurrected .
ck14.16.2	post-adj2	Even though he would later be resurrected , he was indeed dead at this moment , the expression on his face reflecting what he had gone through on the cross .
ck14.17.0	ref	In his sculpture therefore it would not be possible for him to project anything of what Jesus felt for his mother ; only what Mary felt for her son .
ck14.17.1	pre-adj2	Therefore in his sculpture it would not be possible for him to project anything of what Jesus felt for his mother ; only what Mary felt for her son .
ck14.18.0	ref	Jesus ' inert body would be passive , his eyes closed .
ck14.18.1	post-adv	Jesus ' inert body , his eyes closed , would be passive .
ck14.21.0	ref	It was a relief to shift in his mind to technical problems .
ck14.21.1	post-adj2	It was a relief to shift to technical problems in his mind .
ck14.22.0	ref	Since his Christ was to be life size , how was Mary to hold him on her lap without the relationship seeming ungainly ?
ck14.22.1	post-adj2	Since his Christ was to be life size , how was Mary to hold him without the relationship seeming ungainly on her lap ?
ck14.25.0	ref	He started by making free sketches to loosen up his thinking so that images would appear on paper .
ck14.25.1	post-adv	He started by making free sketches so that images would appear on paper to loosen up his thinking .
ck14.28.0	ref	In particular he sought the gentle , sweet-faced nuns , with head coverings and veils coming to the middle of their foreheads , remembering their expressions until he reached home and set them down on paper .
ck14.28.1	post-adv	In particular he sought the gentle , sweet-faced nuns , with head coverings and veils coming to the middle of their foreheads , until he reached home and set them down on paper remembering their expressions .
ck14.30.0	ref	He improvised as he went along , completing a life-size clay figure , then bought yards of an inexpensive material from a draper , wet the lightweight cloth in a basin and covered it over with clay that Argiento brought from the bank of the Tiber , to the consistency of thick mud .
ck14.30.1	post-adv	He , as he went along , improvised completing a life-size clay figure , then bought yards of an inexpensive material from a draper , wet the lightweight cloth in a basin and covered it over with clay that Argiento brought from the bank of the Tiber , to the consistency of thick mud .
ck14.31.0	ref	No fold could be accidental , each turn of the drapery had to serve organically , to cover the Madonna 's slender legs and feet so that they would give substantive support to Christ 's body , to intensify her inner turmoil .
ck14.31.1	post-adv	No fold could be accidental , each turn of the drapery had to serve organically , so that they would give substantive support to Christ 's body to cover the Madonna 's slender legs and feet , to intensify her inner turmoil .
ck14.32.0	ref	When the cloth dried and stiffened , he saw what adjustments had to be made .
ck14.32.1	pre-adv	He saw what adjustments had to be made , when the cloth dried and stiffened .
ck14.35.0	ref	`` See , Argiento , if you control the way these folds are bunched , like this , or made to flow , you can enrich the body attitudes .
ck14.35.1	pre-adv	`` See , Argiento , you can enrich the body attitudes , if you control the way these folds are bunched , like this , or made to flow .
ck14.37.0	ref	He went into the Jewish quarter , wanting to draw Hebraic faces so that he could reach a visual understanding of how Christ might have looked .
ck14.37.1	post-adv	He went into the Jewish quarter , wanting so that he could reach a visual understanding of how Christ might have looked to draw Hebraic faces .
ck14.39.0	ref	The colony had been small until the Spanish Inquisition of 1492 drove many Jews into Rome .
ck14.39.1	post-adv	The colony until the Spanish Inquisition of 1492 drove many Jews into Rome had been small .
ck14.40.0	ref	Here , for the most part , they were well treated , as a `` reminder of the Old Testament heritage of Christianity '' ; many of their gifted members were prominent in the Vatican as physicians , musicians , bankers .
ck14.40.1	pre-adj2	For the most part , here , they were well treated , as a `` reminder of the Old Testament heritage of Christianity '' ; many of their gifted members were prominent in the Vatican as physicians , musicians , bankers .
ck14.41.0	ref	The men did not object to his sketching them while they went about their work , but no one could be persuaded to come to his studio to pose .
ck14.41.1	post-adv	The men did not object to while they went about their work his sketching them , but no one could be persuaded to come to his studio to pose .
ck14.44.0	ref	He was reading from the Talmud with a group of men from his congregation .
ck14.44.1	post-adj2	He was reading with a group of men from his congregation from the Talmud .
ck14.45.0	ref	When Michelangelo explained why he had come , Rabbi Melzi replied gravely : `` The Bible forbids us to bow down to or to make graven images .
ck14.45.1	pre-adv	Rabbi Melzi replied gravely : `` The Bible forbids us to bow down to or to make graven images , when Michelangelo explained why he had come .
ck14.52.0	ref	I can not accomplish this if you will not help me '' .
ck14.52.1	post-adv	I if you will not help me can not accomplish this '' .
ck14.62.0	ref	Rabbi Melzi smiled at him with infinitely old but merry eyes .
ck14.62.1	post-adj2	Rabbi Melzi smiled with infinitely old but merry eyes at him .
ck14.63.0	ref	`` Leave me your address .
ck14.63.1	dat-np-np	`` Leave your address to me .
ck14.64.0	ref	I will send you the best the quarter has to offer '' .
ck14.64.1	dat-np-np	I will send the best the quarter has to offer to you '' .
ck14.65.0	ref	Michelangelo hurried to Sangallo 's solitary bachelor room with his sketches , asked the architect to design a stand which would simulate the seated Madonna .
ck14.65.1	post-adj2	Michelangelo hurried with his sketches to Sangallo 's solitary bachelor room , asked the architect to design a stand which would simulate the seated Madonna .
ck14.70.0	ref	He hesitated for a moment when Michelangelo asked him to disrobe , so Michelangelo gave him a piece of toweling to wrap around his loins , led him to the kitchen to take off his clothes .
ck14.70.1	dat-np-np	He hesitated for a moment when Michelangelo asked him to disrobe , so Michelangelo gave a piece of toweling to wrap around his loins to him , led him to the kitchen to take off his clothes .
ck14.70.2	post-adv	When Michelangelo asked him to disrobe he hesitated for a moment , so Michelangelo gave him a piece of toweling to wrap around his loins , led him to the kitchen to take off his clothes .
ck14.73.0	ref	But at the end of the sitting , when Michelangelo showed him the quick , free drawings , with the mother roughed in , holding her son , the model grasped what Michelangelo was after , and promised to speak to his friends .
ck14.73.1	dat-np-np	But at the end of the sitting , when Michelangelo showed the quick , free drawings , with the mother roughed in , holding her son to him , the model grasped what Michelangelo was after , and promised to speak to his friends .
ck14.73.2	pre-adv	But at the end of the sitting the model grasped what Michelangelo was after , and promised to speak to his friends , when Michelangelo showed him the quick , free drawings , with the mother roughed in , holding her son .
ck14.74.0	ref	He worked for two hours a day with each model sent by the rabbi .
ck14.74.1	post-adj2	He worked with each model sent by the rabbi for two hours a day .
ck14.76.0	ref	Though this sculpture must take place thirty-three years after her moment of decision , he could not conceive of her as a woman in her mid-fifties , old , wrinkled , broken in body and face by labor or worry .
ck14.76.1	dat-np-np	Though this sculpture must take thirty-three years after her moment of decision to place , he could not conceive of her as a woman in her mid-fifties , old , wrinkled , broken in body and face by labor or worry .
ck14.76.2	pre-adv	He could not conceive of her as a woman in her mid-fifties , old , wrinkled , broken in body and face by labor or worry , though this sculpture must take place thirty-three years after her moment of decision .
ck14.80.0	ref	Since the Santo Spirito hospital had taken only men , he had had no experience in the study of female anatomy ; but he had sketched the women of Tuscany in their fields and homes .
ck14.80.1	pre-adv	He had had no experience in the study of female anatomy , since the Santo Spirito hospital had taken only men ; but he had sketched the women of Tuscany in their fields and homes .
ck14.82.0	ref	He spent concentrated weeks putting his two figures together : a Mary who would be young and sensitive , yet strong enough to hold her son on her lap ; and a Jesus who , though lean , was strong even in death a look he remembered well from his experience in the dead room of Santo Spirito .
ck14.82.1	pre-adv	He spent concentrated weeks putting his two figures together : a Mary who would be young and sensitive , yet strong enough to hold her son on her lap ; and a Jesus who , was strong even in death a look he remembered well from his experience in the dead room of Santo Spirito , though lean .
ck14.83.0	ref	He drew toward the composite design from his meticulously accurate memory , without need to consult his sketches .
ck14.83.1	post-adj3	He drew from his meticulously accurate memory toward the composite design , without need to consult his sketches .
ck14.83.2	post-adj3	He drew without need to consult his sketches from his meticulously accurate memory , toward the composite design .
ck14.83.3	post-adj3	He drew toward the composite design without need to consult his sketches , from his meticulously accurate memory .
ck14.83.4	post-adj3	He drew , without need to consult his sketches , toward the composite design from his meticulously accurate memory .
ck14.83.5	post-adj3	He drew from his meticulously accurate memory , without need to consult his sketches toward the composite design .
ck14.85.0	ref	Here he would have free expression because the material could be moved to distort forms .
ck14.85.1	post-adv	Here he because the material could be moved to distort forms would have free expression .
ck14.86.0	ref	When he wanted to emphasize , or get greater intensity , he added or subtracted clay .
ck14.86.1	pre-adv	He added or subtracted clay , when he wanted to emphasize , or get greater intensity .
ck14.87.0	ref	Next he turned to wax because there was a similarity of wax to marble in tactile quality and translucence .
ck14.87.1	post-adv	Because there was a similarity of wax to marble in tactile quality and translucence next he turned to wax .
ck14.88.0	ref	He respected each of these approach techniques , and kept them in character : his quill drawings had a scratchiness , suggesting skin texture ; the clay he used plastically to suggest soft moving flesh , as in an abdomen , in a reclining torso ; the wax he smoothed over to give the body surface an elastic pull .
ck14.88.1	dat-np-np	He respected each of these approach techniques , and kept them in character : his quill drawings had a scratchiness , suggesting skin texture ; the clay he used plastically to suggest soft moving flesh , as in an abdomen , in a reclining torso ; the wax he smoothed over to give an elastic pull to the body surface .
ck14.90.0	ref	When carving he was charged with spontaneous energy ; too careful or detailed studies in clay and wax would have glued him down to a mere enlarging of his model .
ck14.90.1	pre-adv	He was charged with spontaneous energy when carving ; too careful or detailed studies in clay and wax would have glued him down to a mere enlarging of his model .
ck14.95.0	ref	The arrangement with Argiento was working well , except that sometimes Michelangelo could not figure who was master and who apprentice .
ck14.95.1	post-adj2	The arrangement with Argiento was working except that sometimes Michelangelo could not figure who was master and who apprentice , well .
ck14.96.0	ref	Argiento had been trained so rigorously by the Jesuits that Michelangelo was unable to change his habits : up before dawn to scrub the floors , whether they were dirty or not ; water boiling on the fire for washing laundry every day , the pots scoured with river sand after each meal .
ck14.96.1	post-adj2	Argiento had been trained by the Jesuits so rigorously that Michelangelo was unable to change his habits : up before dawn to scrub the floors , whether they were dirty or not ; water boiling on the fire for washing laundry every day , the pots scoured with river sand after each meal .
ck14.97.0	ref	`` Argiento , this is senseless '' , he complained , not liking to work on the wet floors , particularly in cold weather .
ck14.97.1	quote	`` Argiento , this is senseless '' , complained he , not liking to work on the wet floors , particularly in cold weather .
ck14.105.0	ref	`` And God help anyone who tries to unteach you '' ! Grumbled Michelangelo ; yet he knew that he had nothing to grumble about , for Argiento made few demands on him .
ck14.105.1	iquote	`` And God help anyone who tries to unteach you '' ! Michelangelo grumbled ; yet he knew that he had nothing to grumble about , for Argiento made few demands on him .
ck14.110.0	ref	He was crouched over his anvil in the courtyard getting his chisels into trim , when a splinter of steel flew into his eye and imbedded itself in his pupil .
ck14.110.1	post-adv	He , when a splinter of steel flew into his eye and imbedded itself in his pupil , was crouched over his anvil in the courtyard getting his chisels into trim .
ck14.113.0	ref	Though the pain was considerable Michelangelo was not too concerned .
ck14.113.1	pre-adv	Michelangelo was not too concerned though the pain was considerable .
ck14.122.0	ref	The surgeon came back at dusk , cut the vein of a second pigeon , again washed out the eye .
ck14.122.1	post-adj2	The surgeon came at dusk back , cut the vein of a second pigeon , again washed out the eye .
ck15.2.0	ref	The thin legs twitched convulsively once , then Kate felt the little body stiffening in her arms and heard one strangled sound .
ck15.2.1	post-adj2	The thin legs twitched once convulsively , then Kate felt the little body stiffening in her arms and heard one strangled sound .
ck15.5.0	ref	When Juanita awoke , Kate was still rocking the dead child , still crooning in disbelief , `` No , no , oh , no ! ''
ck15.5.1	pre-adv	Kate was still rocking the dead child , still crooning in disbelief , `` No , no , oh , no , when Juanita awoke ! ''
ck15.7.0	ref	He sat beside Kate 's bed with the others throughout the morning , talking , talking of God 's will , while Kate lay staring angrily at him .
ck15.7.1	post-adv	He sat beside Kate 's bed with the others throughout the morning , while Kate lay staring angrily at him , talking , talking of God 's will .
ck15.7.2	post-adj3	He sat with the others beside Kate 's bed throughout the morning , talking , talking of God 's will , while Kate lay staring angrily at him .
ck15.7.3	post-adj3	He sat throughout the morning with the others beside Kate 's bed , talking , talking of God 's will , while Kate lay staring angrily at him .
ck15.7.4	post-adj3	He sat beside Kate 's bed throughout the morning with the others , talking , talking of God 's will , while Kate lay staring angrily at him .
ck15.7.5	post-adj3	He sat , throughout the morning , beside Kate 's bed with the others talking , talking of God 's will , while Kate lay staring angrily at him .
ck15.7.6	post-adj3	He sat with the others throughout the morning beside Kate 's bed , talking , talking of God 's will , while Kate lay staring angrily at him .
ck15.8.0	ref	When he told her God had called the child to Him , she rejected his words rebelliously .
ck15.8.1	pre-adv	She rejected his words rebelliously , when he told her God had called the child to Him .
ck15.10.0	ref	`` It always comes in threes '' , she sighed heavily .
ck15.10.1	quote	`` It always comes in threes '' , sighed she heavily .
ck15.12.0	ref	They held the funeral the next morning from the crossroads church and buried the little box in the quiet family plot .
ck15.12.1	post-adj2	They held the funeral from the crossroads church the next morning and buried the little box in the quiet family plot .
ck15.13.0	ref	Kate moved through all the preparations and services in a state of bewilderment .
ck15.13.1	post-adj2	Kate moved in a state of bewilderment through all the preparations and services .
ck15.15.0	ref	`` God called her to Him '' , the minister had said .
ck15.15.1	quote	`` God called her to Him '' , had said the minister .
ck15.16.0	ref	God would not do that , Kate thought stubbornly .
ck15.16.1	quote	God would not do that , thought Kate stubbornly .
ck15.17.0	ref	Jonathan 's letter came , as she knew it would , and he had accepted their child 's death as another judgment from God against both Kate and himself .
ck15.17.1	post-adv	As she knew it would , Jonathan 's letter came , and he had accepted their child 's death as another judgment from God against both Kate and himself .
ck15.21.0	ref	Joel came and sat mutely with her , sharing her pain and anguish , averting his eyes from the ice packs on her bosom .
ck15.21.1	post-adj2	Joel came and sat with her mutely , sharing her pain and anguish , averting his eyes from the ice packs on her bosom .
ck15.22.0	ref	Juanita and Mrs. Tussle kept Kate in bed a week until her milk dried .
ck15.22.1	post-adv	Until her milk dried Juanita and Mrs. Tussle kept Kate in bed a week .
ck15.22.2	post-adj2	Juanita and Mrs. Tussle kept Kate a week in bed until her milk dried .
ck15.23.0	ref	When she returned to life in the big house she felt shriveled of all emotion save dedication to duty .
ck15.23.1	pre-adv	She felt shriveled of all emotion save dedication to duty when she returned to life in the big house .
ck15.23.2	post-adj2	When she returned in the big house to life she felt shriveled of all emotion save dedication to duty .
ck15.25.0	ref	She had even steeled herself to keep Juanita upstairs in the nurse 's room off the empty nursery , although the girl tried to insist on moving back to the quarters to spare Kate remembrance of the baby 's death .
ck15.25.1	post-adv	She , although the girl tried to insist on moving back to the quarters to spare Kate remembrance of the baby 's death , had even steeled herself to keep Juanita upstairs in the nurse 's room off the empty nursery .
ck15.30.0	ref	Uncle Randolph and Joel had replanted the bottom lands with difficulty , for more of the slaves , including Annie , had sneaked off when the soldiers broke camp .
ck15.30.1	post-adv	Uncle Randolph and Joel had replanted the bottom lands with difficulty , for more of the slaves , including Annie , when the soldiers broke camp had sneaked off .
ck15.31.0	ref	Joel worked like a field hand in the afternoons after school .
ck15.31.1	post-adj3	Joel worked in the afternoons like a field hand after school .
ck15.31.2	post-adj3	Joel worked after school in the afternoons like a field hand .
ck15.31.3	post-adj3	Joel worked like a field hand after school in the afternoons .
ck15.31.4	post-adj3	Joel worked after school like a field hand in the afternoons .
ck15.31.5	post-adj3	Joel worked in the afternoons after school like a field hand .
ck15.32.0	ref	He had been at lessons in the schoolhouse since they returned from Harpers Ferry .
ck15.32.1	post-adv	He since they returned from Harpers Ferry had been at lessons in the schoolhouse .
ck15.35.0	ref	Uncle Randolph had been riding out every evening on some secret business of his own .
ck15.35.1	post-adj3	Uncle Randolph had been riding every evening out on some secret business of his own .
ck15.35.2	post-adj3	Uncle Randolph had been riding on some secret business of his own every evening out .
ck15.35.3	post-adj3	Uncle Randolph had been riding out on some secret business of his own every evening .
ck15.35.4	post-adj3	Uncle Randolph had been riding on some secret business of his own out every evening .
ck15.35.5	post-adj3	Uncle Randolph had been riding every evening on some secret business of his own out .
ck15.42.0	ref	I aim to keep a little whisky still back in the ridge for my pleasure '' .
ck15.42.1	post-adj2	I aim to keep a little whisky still for my pleasure back in the ridge '' .
ck15.45.0	ref	`` Hush '' , said Uncle Randolph , smiling , `` or I 'll give you another black eye '' .
ck15.45.1	dat-np-np	`` Hush '' , said Uncle Randolph , smiling , `` or I 'll give another black eye to you '' .
ck15.46.0	ref	He patted the eye Joel had had blackened in a fight over being Rebel at the crossroads some days back .
ck15.46.1	post-adj3	He patted the eye Joel had had blackened at the crossroads in a fight over being Rebel some days back .
ck15.46.2	post-adj3	He patted the eye Joel had had blackened some days back at the crossroads in a fight over being Rebel .
ck15.46.3	post-adj3	He patted the eye Joel had had blackened in a fight over being Rebel some days back at the crossroads .
ck15.46.4	post-adj3	He patted the eye Joel had had blackened some days back in a fight over being Rebel at the crossroads .
ck15.46.5	post-adj3	He patted the eye Joel had had blackened at the crossroads some days back in a fight over being Rebel .
ck15.47.0	ref	Kate had no idea what they were talking of , although she had seen the blue lights and strange fires burning and winking on the ridges at night , had heard horsemen on the River Road and hill trails through the nights till dawn .
ck15.47.1	post-adv	Although she had seen the blue lights and strange fires burning and winking on the ridges at night , had heard horsemen on the River Road and hill trails through the nights till dawn , Kate had no idea what they were talking of .
ck15.48.0	ref	Stranger , Uncle Randolph began riding home nights with a jug strapped to his saddle , drunkenly singing `` Old Dan Tucker '' at the top of his voice .
ck15.48.1	post-adj3	Stranger , Uncle Randolph began riding nights home with a jug strapped to his saddle , drunkenly singing `` Old Dan Tucker '' at the top of his voice .
ck15.48.2	post-adj3	Stranger , Uncle Randolph began riding with a jug strapped to his saddle nights home , drunkenly singing `` Old Dan Tucker '' at the top of his voice .
ck15.48.3	post-adj3	Stranger , Uncle Randolph began riding home with a jug strapped to his saddle nights , drunkenly singing `` Old Dan Tucker '' at the top of his voice .
ck15.48.4	post-adj3	Stranger , Uncle Randolph began riding , with a jug strapped to his saddle , home nights drunkenly singing `` Old Dan Tucker '' at the top of his voice .
ck15.48.5	post-adj3	Stranger , Uncle Randolph began riding nights with a jug strapped to his saddle home , drunkenly singing `` Old Dan Tucker '' at the top of his voice .
ck15.49.0	ref	Hearing his voice ring raucously up from the road , Kate would await him anxiously and watch perplexed as he walked into the house , cold sober .
ck15.49.1	post-adv	Hearing his voice ring raucously up from the road , Kate would as he walked into the house , cold sober await him anxiously and watch perplexed .
ck15.50.0	ref	What he was about became clear to her with the circulation of another broadside proclamation by General McClellan , threatening reprisals against Rebel guerrillas .
ck15.50.1	post-adj2	What he was about became clear with the circulation of another broadside proclamation by General McClellan , threatening reprisals against Rebel guerrillas to her .
ck15.52.0	ref	Kate drew more and more on her affection for Joel through the hot days of summer work .
ck15.52.1	post-adj3	Kate drew on her affection for Joel more and more through the hot days of summer work .
ck15.52.2	post-adj3	Kate drew through the hot days of summer work on her affection for Joel more and more .
ck15.52.3	post-adj3	Kate drew more and more through the hot days of summer work on her affection for Joel .
ck15.52.4	post-adj3	Kate drew through the hot days of summer work more and more on her affection for Joel .
ck15.52.5	post-adj3	Kate drew on her affection for Joel through the hot days of summer work more and more .
ck15.53.0	ref	She had taken him out of the schoolhouse and closed the school for the summer , after she saw Miss Snow crack Joel across the face with a ruler for letting a snake loose in the schoolroom .
ck15.53.1	post-adv	She , after she saw Miss Snow crack Joel across the face with a ruler for letting a snake loose in the schoolroom , had taken him out of the schoolhouse and closed the school for the summer .
ck15.54.0	ref	Kate had walked past the school on her morning chores and had seen the whole incident , had seen Joel 's burning humiliation before Miss Snow 's cold , bespectacled wrath .
ck15.54.1	post-adj2	Kate had walked on her morning chores past the school and had seen the whole incident , had seen Joel 's burning humiliation before Miss Snow 's cold , bespectacled wrath .
ck15.55.0	ref	He had the hardest pains of growing before him now , as he approached twelve .
ck15.55.1	post-adv	As he approached twelve , he had the hardest pains of growing before him now .
ck15.55.2	post-adj2	He had the hardest pains of growing now before him , as he approached twelve .
ck15.56.0	ref	These would be his hardest years , she knew , and he missed his father desperately .
ck15.56.1	quote	These would be his hardest years , knew she , and he missed his father desperately .
ck15.58.0	ref	Whenever she found time , she went blackberry picking with him , and they would come home together , mouths purple , arms and faces scratched , tired enough to forget grief for another day .
ck15.58.1	pre-adv	She went blackberry picking with him , whenever she found time , and they would come home together , mouths purple , arms and faces scratched , tired enough to forget grief for another day .
ck15.62.0	ref	They stayed in their own world on the bluff , waiting for letters and the peddler , bringing the news .
ck15.62.1	post-adj2	They stayed on the bluff in their own world , waiting for letters and the peddler , bringing the news .
ck15.63.0	ref	Jonathan wrote grimly of the destruction of Harpers Ferry before they abandoned it ; of their first engagement at Falling Waters after Old Jack 's First Brigade had destroyed all the rolling stock of the B & O Railroad .
ck15.63.1	post-adj2	Jonathan wrote of the destruction of Harpers Ferry before they abandoned it ; of their first engagement at Falling Waters after Old Jack 's First Brigade had destroyed all the rolling stock of the B & O Railroad grimly .
ck15.64.0	ref	The men were restive , he wrote , ready to take the battle to the enemy as Jackson wished .
ck15.64.1	post-adv	The men were restive , he wrote , ready as Jackson wished to take the battle to the enemy .
ck15.65.0	ref	The peddler came bawling his wares and told them of the convention in Wheeling , Which had formed a new state government by declaring the government at Richmond in the east illegal because they were traitors .
ck15.65.1	post-adv	The peddler came bawling his wares and told them of the convention in Wheeling , Which had formed a new state government by because they were traitors declaring the government at Richmond in the east illegal .
ck15.69.0	ref	The Federals is making everybody take the oath of loyalty around these parts too '' , he crowed .
ck15.69.1	quote	The Federals is making everybody take the oath of loyalty around these parts too '' , crowed he .
ck15.70.0	ref	After he had gone , Kate asked Uncle Randolph proudly , `` Would you take their oath '' ?
ck15.70.1	pre-adv	Kate asked Uncle Randolph proudly , `` Would you take their oath '' , after he had gone ?
ck15.71.0	ref	And the old man had given a sly and wicked laugh and said , `` Hell , yes ! I think I 've taken it about fifty times already '' ! Winking at Joel 's look of shock .
ck15.71.1	dat-np-np	And the old man had given a sly and wicked laugh and said , `` Hell , yes ! I think I 've taken about fifty times to it already '' ! Winking at Joel 's look of shock .
ck15.75.0	ref	Rumor of a big battle spread like a grassfire up the valley .
ck15.75.1	post-adj2	Rumor of a big battle spread up the valley like a grassfire .
ck15.76.0	ref	Accounts were garbled at the telegraph office when they sent old George down to Parkersburg for the news .
ck15.76.1	post-adv	Accounts when they sent old George down to Parkersburg for the news were garbled at the telegraph office .
ck15.77.0	ref	`` All dey know down dere is it were at Manassas Junction and it were a big fight '' , the old man told them .
ck15.77.1	quote	`` All dey know down dere is it were at Manassas Junction and it were a big fight '' , told the old man them .
ck15.81.0	ref	Kate and Mrs. Tussle waited for letters anxiously .
ck15.81.1	post-adj2	Kate and Mrs. Tussle waited anxiously for letters .
ck15.83.0	ref	When Kate hurried in alarm to tell him to put it out , she saw other dots of flames among the western Virginia hills from the few scattered fires of the faithful .
ck15.83.1	pre-adv	She saw other dots of flames among the western Virginia hills from the few scattered fires of the faithful , when Kate hurried in alarm to tell him to put it out .
ck15.85.0	ref	The week after Manassas the sound of horses in the yard brought Kate up in shock from an afternoon 's rest when she saw the Federal soldiers from her upstairs window .
ck15.85.1	post-adv	When she saw the Federal soldiers from her upstairs window the week after Manassas the sound of horses in the yard brought Kate up in shock from an afternoon 's rest .
ck15.85.2	post-adj2	The week after Manassas the sound of horses in the yard brought Kate up from an afternoon 's rest in shock when she saw the Federal soldiers from her upstairs window .
ck15.86.0	ref	They had already lost most of their corn , she thought .
ck15.86.1	quote	They had already lost most of their corn , thought she .
ck15.87.0	ref	Were they to be insulted again because of the South 's great victory ?
ck15.87.1	post-adj2	Were they to be insulted because of the South 's great victory again ?
ck15.88.0	ref	She remembered McClellan 's last proclamation as she hurried fearfully down the stairs .
ck15.88.1	post-adv	As she hurried fearfully down the stairs she remembered McClellan 's last proclamation .
ck15.88.2	post-adj2	She remembered McClellan 's last proclamation as she hurried down the stairs fearfully .
ck15.91.0	ref	As Kate came swiftly down the stairs to the hall she saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore .
ck15.91.1	pre-adv	She saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore as Kate came swiftly down the stairs to the hall .
ck15.91.2	post-adj3	As Kate came down the stairs swiftly to the hall she saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore .
ck15.91.3	post-adj3	As Kate came to the hall down the stairs swiftly she saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore .
ck15.91.4	post-adj3	As Kate came swiftly to the hall down the stairs she saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore .
ck15.91.5	post-adj3	As Kate came to the hall swiftly down the stairs she saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore .
ck15.91.6	post-adj3	As Kate came down the stairs to the hall swiftly she saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore .
ck15.93.0	ref	`` What brings you here again , Colonel Marsh '' ? She asked , taking him and Juanita into the parlor where the shutters were closed against the afternoon sun .
ck15.93.1	dat-np-np	`` What brings Colonel Marsh here again , to you '' ? She asked , taking him and Juanita into the parlor where the shutters were closed against the afternoon sun .
ck15.93.2	post-adj2	`` What brings you again here , Colonel Marsh '' ? She asked , taking him and Juanita into the parlor where the shutters were closed against the afternoon sun .
ck15.96.0	ref	`` It was a terrible loss to me '' , said Kate quietly , feeling the pain twist again at the mention , knowing now that Juanita must have written to him at Grafton .
ck15.96.1	iquote	`` It was a terrible loss to me '' , Kate said quietly , feeling the pain twist again at the mention , knowing now that Juanita must have written to him at Grafton .
ck15.98.0	ref	`` As you know , General McClellan has been occupying Beverly .
ck15.98.1	pre-adv	General McClellan has been occupying Beverly `` as you know .
ck15.101.0	ref	`` When are you to leave '' ? Kate asked , watching them both now anxiously .
ck15.101.1	post-adj2	`` When are you to leave '' ? Kate asked , watching them both anxiously now .
ck15.102.0	ref	Their eyes betrayed too much of their emotions , she thought sadly .
ck15.102.1	quote	Their eyes betrayed too much of their emotions , thought she sadly .
ck15.104.0	ref	Would you permit Juanita to walk about the grounds with me for a short spell , Mrs. Lattimer '' ?
ck15.104.1	post-adj3	Would you permit Juanita to walk with me about the grounds for a short spell , Mrs. Lattimer '' ?
ck15.104.2	post-adj3	Would you permit Juanita to walk for a short spell with me about the grounds , Mrs. Lattimer '' ?
ck15.104.3	post-adj3	Would you permit Juanita to walk about the grounds for a short spell with me , Mrs. Lattimer '' ?
ck15.104.4	post-adj3	Would you permit Juanita to walk for a short spell about the grounds with me , Mrs. Lattimer '' ?
ck15.104.5	post-adj3	Would you permit Juanita to walk with me for a short spell about the grounds , Mrs. Lattimer '' ?
ck15.105.0	ref	`` Stay here in the parlor where it 's cool '' , she said , trying to be calm .
ck15.105.1	post-adj2	`` Stay in the parlor where it 's cool here '' , she said , trying to be calm .
ck15.109.0	ref	When Marsh called to his aide and the pair rode off down the River Road where the gentians burned blue , Juanita was shaken and trying not to cry .
ck15.109.1	pre-adv	Juanita was shaken and trying not to cry , when Marsh called to his aide and the pair rode off down the River Road where the gentians burned blue .
ck15.111.0	ref	`` He wants me to go with him tomorrow '' , she told Kate .
ck15.111.1	quote	`` He wants me to go with him tomorrow '' , told she Kate .
ck15.111.2	post-adj2	`` He wants me to go tomorrow with him '' , she told Kate .
ck15.117.0	ref	It 's your decision '' , said Juanita , holding her face very still , trying to contain the bitterness of her voice as she enunciated her words too distinctly .
ck15.117.1	post-adv	It 's your decision '' , said Juanita , holding her face very still , trying as she enunciated her words too distinctly to contain the bitterness of her voice .
ck15.117.2	iquote	It 's your decision '' , Juanita said , holding her face very still , trying to contain the bitterness of her voice as she enunciated her words too distinctly .
ck16.2.0	ref	The two in the bed knew each other as old people know the partners with whom they have shared the same bed for many years , and they needed to say no more .
ck16.2.1	post-adv	As old people know the partners with whom they have shared the same bed for many years the two in the bed knew each other , and they needed to say no more .
ck16.9.0	ref	`` Well , I 'm here at last '' , she said , addressing the old portraits on the walls .
ck16.9.1	quote	`` Well , I 'm here at last '' , said , addressing she the old portraits on the walls .
ck16.9.2	post-adj2	`` Well , I 'm at last here '' , she said , addressing the old portraits on the walls .
ck16.17.0	ref	There were times now , like this , when she lost control of the time count and moved freely back and forth into three generations .
ck16.17.1	post-adj2	There were times like this , now , when she lost control of the time count and moved freely back and forth into three generations .
ck16.22.0	ref	Martha picked up the hem of her gown and with eyes closed she slowly began to dance a stately minuet around the ballroom .
ck16.22.1	pre-adv	Martha picked up the hem of her gown and she slowly began to dance a stately minuet around the ballroom with eyes closed .
ck16.24.0	ref	He had ridden hard from Boston , and he was not used to horseback .
ck16.24.1	post-adj2	He had ridden from Boston hard , and he was not used to horseback .
ck16.26.0	ref	The road leading south along the river was shaded with old trees , and in the moonlight the silvery landscape was like a setting for trolls and wood gods rather than the Hudson River Valley of his boyhood memories .
ck16.26.1	post-adj2	The road leading along the river south was shaded with old trees , and in the moonlight the silvery landscape was like a setting for trolls and wood gods rather than the Hudson River Valley of his boyhood memories .
ck16.27.0	ref	He slapped the reins on the back of the powerful gray horse and held on as the sulky 's wheels hit a pothole and came out with a jolt and went on .
ck16.27.1	post-adv	He as the sulky 's wheels hit a pothole and came out with a jolt and went on slapped the reins on the back of the powerful gray horse and held on .
ck16.28.0	ref	He would cross to Manhattan , to Harlem Heights , before morning .
ck16.28.1	post-adj2	He would cross before morning , to Manhattan , to Harlem Heights .
ck16.33.0	ref	Mynheer , Sir Francis , the valley society , the very smell of the river on his right purling along to the bay past fish weirs and rocks , and ahead the sleepy ribbon of moon-drenched road .
ck16.33.1	post-adj2	Mynheer , Sir Francis , the valley society , the very smell of the river on his right purling past fish weirs and rocks along to the bay , and ahead the sleepy ribbon of moon-drenched road .
ck16.50.0	ref	The Sons were out tonight .
ck16.50.1	post-adj2	The Sons were tonight out .
ck16.70.0	ref	The chevaux de frise , those sharp stakes and barriers around the fort at the Battery , pointed to a conflict between the town and sea power rolling in glassy swells as the tide came in .
ck16.70.1	post-adv	The chevaux de frise , those sharp stakes and barriers around the fort at the Battery , pointed to a conflict between the town and as the tide came in sea power rolling in glassy swells .
ck16.83.0	ref	He had sent the dispatches downtown to the proper people and had slept .
ck16.83.1	post-adj2	He had sent the dispatches to the proper people downtown and had slept .
ck16.91.0	ref	There would be great need soon for his skill as surgeon , but somehow he had not planned to use his knowledge merely for war .
ck16.91.1	post-adj2	There would be great need for his skill as surgeon soon , but somehow he had not planned to use his knowledge merely for war .
ck16.99.0	ref	Unique circumstances would test us all , he decided .
ck16.99.1	quote	Unique circumstances would test us all , decided he .
ck16.101.0	ref	No doubt John Hancock would do well now ; war was a smugglers ' heaven .
ck16.101.1	post-adj2	No doubt John Hancock would do now well ; war was a smugglers ' heaven .
ck16.103.0	ref	Things like that would increase rather than be done away with .
ck16.103.1	post-adj2	Things like that would increase rather than be done with away .
ck16.105.0	ref	He saw with John Hunter now that the perfectability of man was a dream .
ck16.105.1	post-adj2	He saw now with John Hunter that the perfectability of man was a dream .
ck16.108.0	ref	Time plays an essential part in our mortality , and suddenly for no reason he could imagine -LRB- or admit -RRB- the image of Peg laughing filled his mind -- so desirable , so lusty , so full of nuances of pleasure and joy .
ck16.108.1	pre-adj2	Time plays an essential part in our mortality , and for no reason he could imagine -LRB- or admit -RRB- suddenly the image of Peg laughing filled his mind -- so desirable , so lusty , so full of nuances of pleasure and joy .
ck16.114.0	ref	He felt cheerful again , refreshed ; presentable in his wide-cut brown suit , the well-made riding boots .
ck16.114.1	post-adj2	He felt cheerful in his wide-cut brown suit , the well-made riding boots , refreshed ; presentable again .
ck16.118.0	ref	A man could be tossed outside the dimension of time by a stray bullet these days .
ck16.118.1	post-adj2	A man could be tossed by a stray bullet outside the dimension of time these days .
ck17.3.0	ref	He wondered how they could go on in poverty , superstition , ignorance , with a complete lack of desire to make either their land or their lives flourish .
ck17.3.1	post-adj2	He wondered how they could go on with a complete lack of desire to make either their land or their lives flourish , in poverty , superstition , ignorance .
ck17.12.0	ref	He had sat beside Alexander Brandel at the rostrum of a congress of Zionists .
ck17.12.1	post-adj2	He had sat at the rostrum of a congress of Zionists beside Alexander Brandel .
ck17.13.0	ref	All of them were there in this loosely knit association of diversified ideologies , and each berated the other and beat his breast for his own approaches .
ck17.13.1	post-adj2	All of them were in this loosely knit association of diversified ideologies there , and each berated the other and beat his breast for his own approaches .
ck17.14.0	ref	When Alexander Brandel rose to speak , the hall became silent .
ck17.14.1	pre-adv	The hall became silent , when Alexander Brandel rose to speak .
ck17.16.0	ref	We are here because all our paths travel a blind course through a thick forest , seeking human dignity .
ck17.16.1	post-adv	Because all our paths travel a blind course through a thick forest , seeking human dignity we are here .
ck17.21.0	ref	We all seek the same thing through different ways -- an end to this long night of two thousand years of darkness and unspeakable abuses which will continue to plague us until the Star of David flies over Zion '' .
ck17.21.1	post-adv	We all seek the same thing through different ways -- an end to this long night of two thousand years of darkness and unspeakable abuses which until the Star of David flies over Zion will continue to plague us '' .
ck17.26.0	ref	Before he went into battle Andrei had told Alex , `` I only want to be a Pole .
ck17.26.1	pre-adv	Andrei had told Alex , `` I only want to be a Pole before he went into battle .
ck17.28.0	ref	And now Andrei sat on a train on the way to Lublin and wondered if he was not being punished for his lack of belief .
ck17.28.1	post-adj2	And now Andrei sat on the way to Lublin on a train and wondered if he was not being punished for his lack of belief .
ck17.32.0	ref	Once there had been big glittering rooms where Ulanys bowed and kissed the ladies ' hands as they flirted from behind their fans .
ck17.32.1	post-adv	Once there had been big glittering rooms where as they flirted from behind their fans Ulanys bowed and kissed the ladies ' hands .
ck17.39.0	ref	I hate Warsaw , he said to himself .
ck17.39.1	quote	I hate Warsaw , said he to himself .
ck17.45.0	ref	Only Palestine , and I will never live to see Palestine because I did not believe .
ck17.45.1	post-adv	Only Palestine , and I because I did not believe will never live to see Palestine .
ck17.64.0	ref	As the messages from Himmler , Heydrich , and Eichmann came in through Alfred Funk , Lublin 's fountainhead spouted .
ck17.64.1	pre-adv	Lublin 's fountainhead spouted , as the messages from Himmler , Heydrich , and Eichmann came in through Alfred Funk .
ck17.64.2	post-adj2	As the messages from Himmler , Heydrich , and Eichmann came through Alfred Funk in , Lublin 's fountainhead spouted .
ck17.77.0	ref	As the camp emptied , it was refilled by a draining of the camps and towns around Lublin , then by deportees from outside Poland .
ck17.77.1	pre-adv	It was refilled by a draining of the camps and towns around Lublin , then by deportees from outside Poland , as the camp emptied .
ck17.90.0	ref	`` I have been waiting across the street at the post office since dawn .
ck17.90.1	post-adj3	`` I have been waiting at the post office across the street since dawn .
ck17.90.2	post-adj3	`` I have been waiting since dawn at the post office across the street .
ck17.90.3	post-adj3	`` I have been waiting across the street since dawn at the post office .
ck17.90.4	post-adj3	`` I have been waiting since dawn across the street at the post office .
ck17.90.5	post-adj3	`` I have been waiting at the post office since dawn across the street .
ck17.99.0	ref	`` When that woman found me and told me that you needed me I was never so happy since before the war '' .
ck17.99.1	pre-adv	I was never so happy since before the war `` when that woman found me and told me that you needed me '' .
ck17.99.2	post-adj2	`` When that woman found me and told me that you needed me I was since before the war so happy never '' .
ck17.110.0	ref	I came to Warsaw twice , but there was that damned ghetto wall '' `` I understand '' .
ck17.110.1	post-adj2	I came twice to Warsaw , but there was that damned ghetto wall '' `` I understand '' .
ck17.114.0	ref	I did exactly as instructed .
ck17.114.1	post-adv	As instructed I did exactly .
ck17.115.0	ref	I told him you are on orders from the Home Army to get inside Majdanek so you can make a report to the government in exile in London '' .
ck17.115.1	post-adv	I told him you are on orders from the Home Army so you can make a report to the government in exile in London to get inside Majdanek '' .
ck17.119.0	ref	`` He is aware he will not live for twenty-four hours if he betrays you '' .
ck17.119.1	post-adv	`` He is aware he if he betrays you will not live for twenty-four hours '' .
ck17.128.0	ref	Perhaps if they know the story there will be a massive cry of indignation '' .
ck17.128.1	pre-adv	Perhaps there will be a massive cry of indignation if they know the story '' .
ck17.134.0	ref	Until I was transferred into the Seventh Ulanys I was like every other Pole in my feeling about Jews .
ck17.134.1	pre-adv	I was like every other Pole in my feeling about Jews until I was transferred into the Seventh Ulanys .
ck17.135.0	ref	I hated you when I first came in .
ck17.135.1	post-adv	When I first came in I hated you .
ck17.140.0	ref	You never knew about it , but by God , we taught them respect for Captain Androfski '' .
ck17.140.1	dat-np-np	You never knew about it , but by God , we taught respect for Captain Androfski to them '' .
ck17.142.0	ref	`` Since the war I have seen the way the Germans have behaved and I think , Holy Mother , we have behaved like this for hundreds of years .
ck17.142.1	post-adj2	`` Since the war I have seen the way the Germans have behaved and I think , Holy Mother , we have behaved for hundreds of years like this .
ck17.148.0	ref	`` I have sat many hours with this , Styka .
ck17.148.1	post-adj2	`` I have sat with this many hours , Styka .
ck17.156.0	ref	`` I 'm still a soldier in a very small way , Styka '' .
ck17.156.1	post-adj2	`` I 'm in a very small way a soldier still , Styka '' .
ck17.158.0	ref	Grabski 's shanty was beyond the bridge over the River Bystrzyca near the rail center .
ck17.158.1	post-adj2	Grabski 's shanty was near the rail center beyond the bridge over the River Bystrzyca .
ck17.168.0	ref	He can make you work papers .
ck17.168.1	dat-np-np	He can make work papers to you .
ck17.170.0	ref	I will get you inside the guard camp as a member of my crew .
ck17.170.1	post-adj2	I will get you as a member of my crew inside the guard camp .
ck17.183.0	ref	His broad flat fingers , petrified into massive sausages by years of bricklaying , snatched the bills clumsily .
ck17.183.1	post-adj2	His broad flat fingers , petrified by years of bricklaying into massive sausages , snatched the bills clumsily .
ck17.185.0	ref	`` You get the rest when I 'm safely out of Majdanek '' .
ck17.185.1	post-adv	When I 'm safely out of Majdanek `` you get the rest '' .
ck18.2.0	ref	I 'd have been more impressed if I had n't remembered that she 'd played Hedda Gabler in her highschool dramatics course .
ck18.2.1	post-adv	I 'd if I had n't remembered that she 'd played Hedda Gabler in her highschool dramatics course have been more impressed .
ck18.5.0	ref	When I 'd delivered myself of that gem there was nothing to do but order up another drink .
ck18.5.1	pre-adv	There was nothing to do but order up another drink , when I 'd delivered myself of that gem .
ck18.6.0	ref	`` I am '' , she said .
ck18.6.1	quote	`` I am '' , said she .
ck18.8.0	ref	It was just me and Eileen getting drunk together like we used to in the old days , and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my hands on her partly because I wanted to wring her neck because she was so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch .
ck18.8.1	post-adv	It was just like we used to in the old days me and Eileen getting drunk together , and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my hands on her partly because I wanted to wring her neck because she was so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch .
ck18.8.2	post-adv	It was just me and Eileen getting drunk together like we used to in the old days , and me staring at her across the table crazy partly because I wanted to wring her neck because she was so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch to get my hands on her .
ck18.8.3	post-adv	It was just me and Eileen getting drunk together like we used to in the old days , and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my hands on her partly because I wanted because she was so ornery to wring her neck but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch .
ck18.13.0	ref	We moved down Broadway from ginmill to ginmill .
ck18.13.1	post-adj2	We moved from ginmill to ginmill down Broadway .
ck18.17.0	ref	`` I could scratch her eyes out '' , Eileen cried and stamped her foot when I came back from the phone booth .
ck18.17.1	quote	`` I could scratch her eyes out '' , cried and stamped Eileen her foot when I came back from the phone booth .
ck18.17.2	post-adj2	`` I could scratch her eyes out '' , Eileen cried and stamped her foot when I came from the phone booth back .
ck18.31.0	ref	`` Precious and I allow each other absolute freedom .
ck18.31.1	dat-np-np	`` Precious and I allow absolute freedom to each other .
ck18.37.0	ref	If he pokes his nose in here I 'll slug him '' .
ck18.37.1	pre-adv	I 'll slug him if he pokes his nose in here '' .
ck18.40.0	ref	She was still laughing when I grabbed her and started rolling her on the bed .
ck18.40.1	post-adv	She when I grabbed her and started rolling her on the bed was still laughing .
ck18.48.0	ref	I was stumbling in my undershirt trying to find my way around her damn kitchenette when I smelt that sickish sweet hairtonic smell .
ck18.48.1	post-adv	I when I smelt that sickish sweet hairtonic smell was stumbling in my undershirt trying to find my way around her damn kitchenette .
ck18.51.0	ref	Honest I could feel the hair stand up on the back of my neck like a dog 's that is going to get into a fight .
ck18.51.1	post-adj2	Honest I could feel the hair stand up like a dog 's that is going to get into a fight on the back of my neck .
ck18.52.0	ref	I turned around with the percolator in my hand .
ck18.52.1	post-adj2	I turned with the percolator in my hand around .
ck18.56.0	ref	We did n't have time to speak before Eileen 's voice was screeching at us from the bed .
ck18.56.1	post-adv	We before Eileen 's voice was screeching at us from the bed did n't have time to speak .
ck18.56.2	post-adj2	We did n't have time to speak before Eileen 's voice was screeching from the bed at us .
ck18.61.0	ref	If you want to fight , go down on the sidewalk '' .
ck18.61.1	pre-adv	Go down on the sidewalk , if you want to fight '' .
ck18.72.0	ref	Of course I had to give her Eileen 's address , but she never came near us .
ck18.72.1	dat-np-np	Of course I had to give Eileen 's address to her , but she never came near us .
ck18.73.0	ref	All she did was write me a pleasant little note about how it was beautiful while it lasted but that now life had parted our ways and it was goodbye forever .
ck18.73.1	dat-np-np	All she did was write a pleasant little note about how it was beautiful while it lasted but that now life had parted our ways and it was goodbye forever to me .
ck18.73.2	post-adv	All she did was write me a pleasant little note about how while it lasted it was beautiful but that now life had parted our ways and it was goodbye forever .
ck18.80.0	ref	And there I was shacked up with Eileen in that filthy fourth floor attic on Hudson Street .
ck18.80.1	post-adj2	And there I was shacked up in that filthy fourth floor attic on Hudson Street with Eileen .
ck18.81.0	ref	I use the phrase advisedly because there was something positively indecent about our relationship .
ck18.81.1	post-adv	Because there was something positively indecent about our relationship I use the phrase advisedly .
ck18.82.0	ref	I felt it and it ate on me all the time , but I did n't know how right I was till later .
ck18.82.1	post-adj2	I felt it and it ate all the time on me , but I did n't know how right I was till later .
ck18.83.0	ref	What I did know was that Precious was always around .
ck18.83.1	post-adj2	What I did know was that Precious was around always .
ck18.86.0	ref	You would n't have me throw the poor boy out on the street '' , Eileen said when I needled her about it .
ck18.86.1	post-adv	You would n't have me throw the poor boy out on the street '' , when I needled her about it Eileen said .
ck18.90.0	ref	To be on the safe side I never let Eileen get out of my sight day or night .
ck18.90.1	post-adj2	To be on the safe side I never let Eileen get day or night out of my sight .
ck18.96.0	ref	Whenever the place was cleaned or a meal served it was Precious who did the work .
ck18.96.1	pre-adv	It was Precious who did the work whenever the place was cleaned or a meal served .
ck18.101.0	ref	`` Connections '' was all he would say with that smooth hurt smile when I put leading questions .
ck18.101.1	post-adv	When I put leading questions `` connections '' was all he would say with that smooth hurt smile .
ck18.102.0	ref	`` Oh he 's just an international spy '' , Eileen would shout with her screechy laugh .
ck18.102.1	quote	`` Oh he 's just an international spy '' , would shout Eileen with her screechy laugh .
ck18.104.0	ref	He got no relief from drink because , though sometimes Precious would buy himself a drink if he went out with us in the evening , he 'd leave it on the table untouched .
ck18.104.1	post-adv	Because , though sometimes Precious would buy himself a drink if he went out with us in the evening , he 'd leave it on the table untouched he got no relief from drink .
ck18.104.2	post-adv	He got no relief from drink because , though sometimes Precious if he went out with us in the evening would buy himself a drink , he 'd leave it on the table untouched .
ck18.104.3	pre-adv	He got no relief from drink because , he 'd leave it on the table untouched , though sometimes Precious would buy himself a drink if he went out with us in the evening .
ck18.105.0	ref	When I was in liquor I rode him pretty hard I guess .
ck18.105.1	quote	When I was in liquor I rode him pretty hard guess I .
ck18.105.2	pre-adv	I rode him pretty hard when I was in liquor I guess .
ck18.106.0	ref	Occasionally if I pushed him too far he 'd give me a look out of narrowed eyes and the hard cruel bony skull would show through that smooth face of his .
ck18.106.1	dat-np-np	Occasionally if I pushed him too far he 'd give a look to me out of narrowed eyes and the hard cruel bony skull would show through that smooth face of his .
ck18.106.2	pre-adv	Occasionally he 'd give me a look out of narrowed eyes if I pushed him too far and the hard cruel bony skull would show through that smooth face of his .
ck18.115.0	ref	I raised some kale by hocking the good clothes I had left over from my respectable uptown life , but when that was gone I did n't have a cent .
ck18.115.1	pre-adv	I raised some kale by hocking the good clothes I had left over from my respectable uptown life , but I did n't have a cent when that was gone .
ck18.116.0	ref	I do n't know what we would have done if Pat O'Dwyer had n't come to town .
ck18.116.1	post-adv	I if Pat O'Dwyer had n't come to town do n't know what we would have done .
ck18.121.0	ref	Those O'Dwyers had that Irish clannishness that made them stick together in spite of politics and everything .
ck18.121.1	post-adj2	Those O'Dwyers had that Irish clannishness that made them stick in spite of politics and everything together .
ck18.122.0	ref	Pat took Eileen and me out to dinner at a swell steak house and told us with tears in his eyes how happy he was we had come together again .
ck18.122.1	post-adj2	Pat took Eileen and me at a swell steak house out to dinner and told us with tears in his eyes how happy he was we had come together again .
ck18.126.0	ref	Pat had been worried as hell ever since she 'd lost her job on that fashion magazine .
ck18.126.1	post-adv	Pat ever since she 'd lost her job on that fashion magazine had been worried as hell .
ck18.127.0	ref	It had gone big with the Hollywood girls when he told them his sister was an editor of Art And Apparel .
ck18.127.1	post-adv	It when he told them his sister was an editor of Art And Apparel had gone big with the Hollywood girls .
ck18.130.0	ref	It just about blew us both out of the water when Eileen suddenly came out with what she came out with .
ck18.130.1	post-adv	When Eileen suddenly came out with what she came out with it just about blew us both out of the water .
ck18.131.0	ref	`` But brother I ca n't take a job right now '' , she said with her eyes on her ice cream , `` I 'm going to have a baby , Francis Xavier 's baby , my own husband 's baby '' .
ck18.131.1	quote	`` But brother I ca n't take a job right now '' , said she with her eyes on her ice cream , `` I 'm going to have a baby , Francis Xavier 's baby , my own husband 's baby '' .
ck18.136.0	ref	He 'd come East for the christening , by God he would .
ck18.136.1	post-adj2	He 'd come for the christening East , by God he would .
ck18.137.0	ref	When we separated that evening Pat pushed a hundred dollar bill into Eileen 's hand to help towards a layette .
ck18.137.1	pre-adv	Pat pushed a hundred dollar bill into Eileen 's hand to help towards a layette when we separated that evening .
ck18.138.0	ref	Before he left town Pat saw to it that I was fixed up with a job .
ck18.138.1	pre-adv	Pat saw to it that I was fixed up with a job before he left town .
ck18.141.0	ref	The portwatchers were retired longshoremen and small time seafarers off towboats and barges who acted as watchmen on the wharves .
ck18.141.1	post-adj2	The portwatchers were retired longshoremen and small time seafarers off towboats and barges who acted on the wharves as watchmen .
ck18.143.0	ref	It was responsible and sometimes dangerous work because the thieving is awful in the port of New York .
ck18.143.1	post-adv	Because the thieving is awful in the port of New York it was responsible and sometimes dangerous work .
ck18.147.0	ref	There I was a retired wobbly and structural iron worker who 'd never gouged a cent off a fellow worker in my thirty years in the movement .
ck18.147.1	post-adj2	There I was a retired wobbly and structural iron worker who 'd never gouged a cent in my thirty years in the movement off a fellow worker .
ck19.2.0	ref	As long as there were two human beings working together on the same project , there would be competition and you could no more escape it than you could expect to escape the grave .
ck19.2.1	post-adj2	As long as there were two human beings working on the same project together , there would be competition and you could no more escape it than you could expect to escape the grave .
ck19.3.0	ref	No matter how devoted a man was , no matter how fully he gave his life to the Lord , he could never extinguish that one spark of pride that gave him definition as an individual .
ck19.3.1	dat-np-np	No matter how devoted a man was , no matter how fully he gave his life to the Lord , he could never extinguish that one spark of pride that gave definition as an individual to him .
ck19.3.2	pre-adj2	No matter how fully he gave his life to the Lord , no matter how devoted a man was , he could never extinguish that one spark of pride that gave him definition as an individual .
ck19.3.3	dat-np-pp	No matter how devoted a man was , no matter how fully he gave the Lord his life , he could never extinguish that one spark of pride that gave him definition as an individual .
ck19.9.0	ref	But perhaps this was a part of the eternal plan , that man 's ambition when linked with God would be a driving , indefatigable force for good in the world .
ck19.9.1	pre-adv	But perhaps this was a part of the eternal plan , that man 's ambition would be a driving , indefatigable force for good in the world when linked with God .
ck19.12.0	ref	He would have to work without questioning the motives which made him work and content himself with the thought that the eventual victory , however it was brought about , would be sweet indeed .
ck19.12.1	pre-adv	He would have to work without questioning the motives which made him work and content himself with the thought that the eventual victory would be sweet indeed , however it was brought about .
ck19.14.0	ref	His arm had been giving him some trouble and Rector was not enough of a medical expert to determine whether it had healed improperly or whether Hino was simply rebelling against the tedious work in the print shop , using the stiffness in his arm as an excuse .
ck19.14.1	dat-np-np	His arm had been giving some trouble to him and Rector was not enough of a medical expert to determine whether it had healed improperly or whether Hino was simply rebelling against the tedious work in the print shop , using the stiffness in his arm as an excuse .
ck19.15.0	ref	In any event Rector sent him to the local hospital to have it checked , telling him to keep his ears open while he was in the village to see if he could find out what Kayabashi was planning .
ck19.15.1	post-adv	In any event Rector sent him to the local hospital to have it checked , telling him while he was in the village to keep his ears open to see if he could find out what Kayabashi was planning .
ck19.18.0	ref	He left with all the joyous spirit of a child going on a holiday , nodding attentively as Rector gave him his final instructions .
ck19.18.1	dat-np-np	He left with all the joyous spirit of a child going on a holiday , nodding attentively as Rector gave his final instructions to him .
ck19.18.2	post-adv	He left with all the joyous spirit of a child going on a holiday , as Rector gave him his final instructions nodding attentively .
ck19.21.0	ref	If he wanted to know anything , he would end up asking about it point-blank , but in this guileless manner he would probably receive more truthful answers than if he tried to get them by indirection .
ck19.21.1	pre-adv	He would end up asking about it point-blank , if he wanted to know anything , but in this guileless manner he would probably receive more truthful answers than if he tried to get them by indirection .
ck19.21.2	post-adj2	If he wanted to know anything , he would end up asking point-blank about it , but in this guileless manner he would probably receive more truthful answers than if he tried to get them by indirection .
ck19.26.0	ref	Hino talked very little about himself except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject .
ck19.26.1	post-adj3	Hino talked about himself very little except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject .
ck19.26.2	post-adj3	Hino talked except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject about himself very little .
ck19.26.3	post-adj3	Hino talked very little except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject about himself .
ck19.26.4	post-adj3	Hino talked except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject very little about himself .
ck19.26.5	post-adj3	Hino talked about himself except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject very little .
ck19.28.0	ref	Hino was the fourth son of an elderly farmer who lived on the coast , in Chiba , and divided his life between the land and the sea , supplementing the marginal livelihood on his small rented farm with seasonal employment on a fishing boat .
ck19.28.1	post-adj2	Hino was the fourth son of an elderly farmer who lived in Chiba , on the coast , and divided his life between the land and the sea , supplementing the marginal livelihood on his small rented farm with seasonal employment on a fishing boat .
ck19.30.0	ref	He had gone into the Japanese navy , had been trained as an officer , had participated in one or two battles -- he never went into detail regarding his military experience -- and at the age of twenty-five , quite as a bolt out of the blue , he had walked into the mission as if he belonged here and had become a Christian .
ck19.30.1	pre-adj2	He had gone into the Japanese navy , had been trained as an officer , had participated in one or two battles -- he never went into detail regarding his military experience -- and quite as a bolt out of the blue , at the age of twenty-five , he had walked into the mission as if he belonged here and had become a Christian .
ck19.30.2	post-adv	He had gone into the Japanese navy , had been trained as an officer , had participated in one or two battles -- he never went into detail regarding his military experience -- and at the age of twenty-five , quite as a bolt out of the blue , he as if he belonged here had walked into the mission and had become a Christian .
ck19.32.0	ref	If and when Hino decided to tell him about his experiences , he would do so unasked .
ck19.32.1	pre-adv	He would do so unasked , if and when Hino decided to tell him about his experiences .
ck19.33.0	ref	Rector had no doubt that Hino would come back from the village bursting with information , ready to impart it with his customary gusto , liberally embellished with his active imagnation .
ck19.33.1	post-adj2	Rector had no doubt that Hino would come from the village back bursting with information , ready to impart it with his customary gusto , liberally embellished with his active imagnation .
ck19.34.0	ref	When the telephone rang on the day after Hino went down to the village , Rector had a hunch it would be Hino with some morsel of information too important to wait until his return , for there were few telephones in the village and the phone in Rector 's office rarely rang unless it was important .
ck19.34.1	post-adv	When the telephone rang on the day after Hino went down to the village , Rector had a hunch it would be Hino with some morsel of information too important to wait until his return , for there were few telephones in the village and unless it was important the phone in Rector 's office rarely rang .
ck19.34.2	pre-adv	Rector had a hunch it would be Hino with some morsel of information too important to wait until his return , when the telephone rang on the day after Hino went down to the village , for there were few telephones in the village and the phone in Rector 's office rarely rang unless it was important .
ck19.36.0	ref	He was even more startled when he heard what Kayabashi wanted .
ck19.36.1	post-adv	When he heard what Kayabashi wanted he was even more startled .
ck19.37.0	ref	The oyabun was entertaining a group of dignitaries , the secretary said , businessmen from Tokyo for the most part , and Kayabashi wished to show them the mission .
ck19.37.1	dat-np-np	The oyabun was entertaining a group of dignitaries , the secretary said , businessmen from Tokyo for the most part , and Kayabashi wished to show the mission to them .
ck19.48.0	ref	`` I beg to inquire if the back is now safe for travelers '' , he said .
ck19.48.1	quote	`` I beg to inquire if the back is now safe for travelers '' , said he .
ck19.55.0	ref	Kayabashi must feel fairly certain of his victory in order to make a visit like this , a trip which could be so easily misinterpreted by the people in the village .
ck19.55.1	post-adv	Kayabashi in order to make a visit like this , a trip which could be so easily misinterpreted by the people in the village must feel fairly certain of his victory .
ck19.56.0	ref	At the same time , it was unlikely that any businessmen would spend a day in a Christian mission out of mere curiosity .
ck19.56.1	post-adj2	At the same time , it was unlikely that any businessmen would spend a day out of mere curiosity in a Christian mission .
ck19.57.0	ref	No , Kayabashi was bringing his associates here for a specific purpose and Rector would not be able to fathom it until they arrived .
ck19.57.1	post-adv	No , Kayabashi was bringing his associates here for a specific purpose and Rector until they arrived would not be able to fathom it .
ck19.57.2	post-adj2	No , Kayabashi was bringing his associates for a specific purpose here and Rector would not be able to fathom it until they arrived .
ck19.58.0	ref	When he had given the call a few moments thought , he went into the kitchen to ask Mrs. Yamata to prepare tea and sushi for the visitors , using the formal English china and the silver tea service which had been donated to the mission , then he went outside to inspect the grounds .
ck19.58.1	dat-np-np	When he had given a few moments thought to the call , he went into the kitchen to ask Mrs. Yamata to prepare tea and sushi for the visitors , using the formal English china and the silver tea service which had been donated to the mission , then he went outside to inspect the grounds .
ck19.58.2	pre-adv	He went into the kitchen to ask Mrs. Yamata to prepare tea and sushi for the visitors , using the formal English china and the silver tea service which had been donated to the mission , when he had given the call a few moments thought , then he went outside to inspect the grounds .
ck19.64.0	ref	`` I should say about a hundred thousand '' , Fletcher said .
ck19.64.1	quote	`` I should say about a hundred thousand '' , said Fletcher .
ck19.66.0	ref	`` I would like to enact a little tableau this afternoon '' , Rector said
ck19.66.1	quote	`` I would like to enact a little tableau this afternoon '' , said Rector
ck19.69.0	ref	Fletcher nodded as he listened to the instructions and said he would arrange the things Rector requested .
ck19.69.1	post-adv	Fletcher as he listened to the instructions nodded and said he would arrange the things Rector requested .
ck19.71.0	ref	He beckoned to her from the door and she slipped quietly outside .
ck19.71.1	post-adj2	He beckoned from the door to her and she slipped quietly outside .
ck19.74.0	ref	She looked back toward the schoolroom .
ck19.74.1	post-adj2	She looked toward the schoolroom back .
ck19.84.0	ref	As Rector was walking back toward the residential hall , Johnson came out of the basement and bounded up to him .
ck19.84.1	pre-adv	Johnson came out of the basement and bounded up to him , as Rector was walking back toward the residential hall .
ck19.84.2	post-adj2	As Rector was walking toward the residential hall back , Johnson came out of the basement and bounded up to him .
ck19.85.0	ref	The altercation in the coffee house had done little to dampen his spirits , but he was still a little wary around Rector for they had not yet discussed the incident .
ck19.85.1	post-adj2	The altercation in the coffee house had done little to dampen his spirits , but he was around Rector a little wary still for they had not yet discussed the incident .
ck19.86.0	ref	`` I think I 've fixed the pump so we wo n't have to worry about it for a long time '' , he said .
ck19.86.1	post-adv	`` I think I so we wo n't have to worry about it for a long time 've fixed the pump '' , he said .
ck19.86.2	quote	`` I think I 've fixed the pump so we wo n't have to worry about it for a long time '' , said he .
ck19.86.3	post-adj2	`` I think I 've fixed the pump so we wo n't have to worry for a long time about it '' , he said .
ck19.87.0	ref	`` I 've adjusted the gauge so that the pump cuts out before the water gets too low . ''
ck19.87.1	post-adv	`` I so that the pump cuts out before the water gets too low 've adjusted the gauge . ''
ck19.87.2	post-adv	`` I 've adjusted the gauge so that before the water gets too low the pump cuts out . ''
ck19.93.0	ref	`` You are about to become a first-class surveyor '' , Rector said .
ck19.93.1	quote	`` You are about to become a first-class surveyor '' , said Rector .
ck19.94.0	ref	`` When Konishi gets back with the jeep , I want you to round up two or three Japanese boys .
ck19.94.1	pre-adv	I want you to round up two or three Japanese boys `` when Konishi gets back with the jeep .
ck19.94.2	post-adj2	`` When Konishi gets with the jeep back , I want you to round up two or three Japanese boys .
ck19.102.0	ref	Rector was warming to his over-all strategy by the time he got back to the residential hall .
ck19.102.1	post-adj2	Rector was warming by the time he got back to the residential hall to his over-all strategy .
ck19.103.0	ref	It was rather a childish game , all in all , but everybody seemed to be getting into the spirit of the thing and he could not remember when he had enjoyed planning anything quite so much .
ck19.103.1	post-adv	It was rather a childish game , all in all , but everybody seemed to be getting into the spirit of the thing and he when he had enjoyed planning anything quite so much could not remember .
ck19.104.0	ref	He was not sure what effect it would have , but that was really beside the point when you got right down to it .
ck19.104.1	post-adv	He was not sure what effect it would have , but when you got right down to it that was really beside the point .
ck19.105.0	ref	He was not going to lose the mission by default , and whatever reason Kayabashi had for bringing his little sight-seeing group to the mission , he was going to be in for a surprise .
ck19.105.1	pre-adv	He was not going to lose the mission by default , and he was going to be in for a surprise , whatever reason Kayabashi had for bringing his little sight-seeing group to the mission .
ck19.106.0	ref	He found Elizabeth in the parlor and asked her to make sure everything was in order in the residential hall , and then to take charge of the office while the party was here .
ck19.106.1	post-adv	He found Elizabeth in the parlor and asked her to make sure everything was in order in the residential hall , and then while the party was here to take charge of the office .
ck19.107.0	ref	When everything had been done , Rector went back to his desk to occupy himself with his monthly report until three o'clock .
ck19.107.1	pre-adv	Rector went back to his desk to occupy himself with his monthly report until three o'clock , when everything had been done .
ck19.107.2	post-adj2	When everything had been done , Rector went to his desk back to occupy himself with his monthly report until three o'clock .
ck19.108.0	ref	At two thirty he sent Fujimoto to the top of the wall at the northeast corner of the mission to keep an eye on the ridge road and give a signal when he first glimpsed the approach of Kayabashi 's party .
ck19.108.1	post-adv	At two thirty he sent Fujimoto to the top of the wall at the northeast corner of the mission to when he first glimpsed the approach of Kayabashi 's party keep an eye on the ridge road and give a signal .
ck20.4.0	ref	But when she called he had thought better of the matter and decided not to involve himself in a new entanglement .
ck20.4.1	pre-adv	But he had thought better of the matter and decided not to involve himself in a new entanglement when she called .
ck20.4.2	post-adj2	But when she called he had thought of the matter better and decided not to involve himself in a new entanglement .
ck20.10.0	ref	At last he consented to meet her , and following that brief interview Claire wrote him a yet more remarkable proposal : Have you any objection to the following plan ?
ck20.10.1	dat-np-np	At last he consented to meet her , and following that brief interview Claire wrote a yet more remarkable proposal : Have you any objection to the following plan to him ?
ck20.11.0	ref	On Thursday evening we may go out of town together by some stage or mail about the distance of ten or twelve miles .
ck20.11.1	post-adj3	On Thursday evening we may go together out of town by some stage or mail about the distance of ten or twelve miles .
ck20.11.2	post-adj3	On Thursday evening we may go by some stage or mail together out of town about the distance of ten or twelve miles .
ck20.11.3	post-adj3	On Thursday evening we may go out of town by some stage or mail together about the distance of ten or twelve miles .
ck20.11.4	post-adj3	On Thursday evening we may go by some stage or mail out of town together about the distance of ten or twelve miles .
ck20.11.5	post-adj3	On Thursday evening we may go together by some stage or mail out of town about the distance of ten or twelve miles .
ck20.18.0	ref	There was one of the new forte-pianos in the room and , as Claire rose to go , he asked her to sing him one song before she left .
ck20.18.1	post-adv	There was one of the new forte-pianos in the room and , as Claire rose to go , he asked her before she left to sing him one song .
ck20.18.2	pre-adv	There was one of the new forte-pianos in the room and , he asked her to sing him one song before she left , as Claire rose to go .
ck20.39.0	ref	And while her Adonis did not suffer from inexperience , satiety might well be an equal handicap .
ck20.39.1	pre-adv	And satiety might well be an equal handicap , while her Adonis did not suffer from inexperience .
ck20.48.0	ref	`` Seems to me last time I was here the grate bellowed out smoke as it might have been preparing us for hell '' .
ck20.48.1	post-adv	`` Seems to me as it might have been preparing us for hell last time I was here the grate bellowed out smoke '' .
ck20.50.0	ref	So , not only had he been here before , but it seemed he might well come again .
ck20.50.1	post-adj2	So , not only had he been before here , but it seemed he might well come again .
ck20.53.0	ref	When Napoleon 's ship had borne him to Elba , French wines had started to cross the Channel , the first shipments in a dozen war-ridden years , but the supplies had not yet reached rural hostelries where the sweet wines of the Spanish peninsula still ruled .
ck20.53.1	pre-adv	French wines had started to cross the Channel , the first shipments in a dozen war-ridden years , when Napoleon 's ship had borne him to Elba , but the supplies had not yet reached rural hostelries where the sweet wines of the Spanish peninsula still ruled .
ck20.54.0	ref	As they waited for supper they sat by the fire , glasses in hand , while Byron philosophized as much for his own entertainment as hers .
ck20.54.1	post-adv	While Byron philosophized as much for his own entertainment as hers , as they waited for supper they sat by the fire , glasses in hand .
ck20.54.2	pre-adv	They sat by the fire , glasses in hand , while Byron philosophized as much for his own entertainment as hers as they waited for supper .
ck20.55.0	ref	`` Sex is overpriced '' , he said .
ck20.55.1	quote	`` Sex is overpriced '' , said he .
ck20.58.0	ref	`` The gods seemed to think sex pretty important '' , she rebutted .
ck20.58.1	quote	`` The gods seemed to think sex pretty important '' , rebutted she .
ck20.60.0	ref	That would be Minerva , I suppose .
ck20.60.1	quote	That would be Minerva , suppose I .
ck20.65.0	ref	`` I 'll tell you nothing .
ck20.65.1	dat-np-np	`` I 'll tell nothing to you .
ck20.72.0	ref	No man ever had a better opinion of himself and indeed , with one so favored , flattery could hardly seem overdone .
ck20.72.1	pre-adj2	No man ever had a better opinion of himself and with one so favored , indeed , flattery could hardly seem overdone .
ck20.73.0	ref	Brains and beauty , high position in both the social and intellectual worlds , athlete , fabled lover -- if ever the world was any man 's oyster it was his .
ck20.73.1	pre-adv	Brains and beauty , high position in both the social and intellectual worlds , athlete , fabled lover it was his -- if ever the world was any man 's oyster .
ck20.78.0	ref	His hand went to her shoulder and pushed aside the knotted scarf that surmounted the striped poplin gown ; then , to better purpose , he took hold of the knot and with dextrous fingers , untied it .
ck20.78.1	pre-adj2	His hand went to her shoulder and pushed aside the knotted scarf that surmounted the striped poplin gown ; to better purpose , then , he took hold of the knot and with dextrous fingers , untied it .
ck20.79.0	ref	The bodice beneath was buttoned and , withdrawing his lips from hers , he set her upright on his knee and started to undo it , unhurriedly as if she were a child .
ck20.79.1	post-adv	The bodice beneath was buttoned and , as if she were a child withdrawing his lips from hers , he set her upright on his knee and started to undo it , unhurriedly .
ck20.81.0	ref	She sprang up and went swiftly to the bedroom .
ck20.81.1	post-adj2	She sprang up and went to the bedroom swiftly .
ck20.83.0	ref	He drank slowly with due appreciation .
ck20.83.1	post-adj2	He drank with due appreciation slowly .
ck20.87.0	ref	When Claire returned to Bishopsgate she longed to tell them she had become Byron 's mistress .
ck20.87.1	pre-adv	She longed to tell them she had become Byron 's mistress when Claire returned to Bishopsgate .
ck20.88.0	ref	By odd coincidence , on the evening of her return Shelley chose to read Parisina , which was the latest of the titled poet 's successes .
ck20.88.1	pre-adj2	On the evening of her return , by odd coincidence Shelley chose to read Parisina , which was the latest of the titled poet 's successes .
ck20.89.0	ref	As he declaimed the sonorous measures , it was as much as Claire could do to restrain herself from bursting out with her dramatic tidings .
ck20.89.1	pre-adv	It was as much as Claire could do to restrain herself from bursting out with her dramatic tidings , as he declaimed the sonorous measures .
ck20.90.0	ref	`` Although it is not the best of which he is capable '' , said Shelley as he closed the book , `` it is still poetry of a high order '' .
ck20.90.1	pre-adv	Said Shelley as he closed the book , `` it is still poetry of a high order `` although it is not the best of which he is capable '' .
ck20.93.0	ref	`` The hero of his next poem is Napoleon Bonaparte '' , said Claire , with slightly overdone carelessness .
ck20.93.1	iquote	`` The hero of his next poem is Napoleon Bonaparte '' , Claire said , with slightly overdone carelessness .
ck20.95.0	ref	`` I was told it on good authority '' , Claire answered darkly .
ck20.95.1	quote	`` I was told it on good authority '' , answered Claire darkly .
ck20.96.0	ref	`` I must n't tell , I must n't tell '' , she repeated to herself .
ck20.96.1	quote	`` I must n't tell , I must n't tell '' , repeated she to herself .
ck20.109.0	ref	`` You have made the labor worth while '' , he said to her , smiling .
ck20.109.1	quote	`` You have made the labor worth while '' , said he to her , smiling .
ck20.110.0	ref	`` And in the future , since I write for a public of one , I can save the poor publishers from wasting their money '' .
ck20.110.1	pre-adv	`` And in the future I can save the poor publishers from wasting their money , since I write for a public of one '' .
ck20.127.0	ref	Now , under the impact of his wife 's disclosures , he was brought suddenly to the realization that there was a limit to tolerance , however brilliant , however far-famed the offender might be .
ck20.127.1	pre-adj2	Under the impact of his wife 's disclosures , now , he was brought suddenly to the realization that there was a limit to tolerance , however brilliant , however far-famed the offender might be .
ck20.127.2	post-adv	Now , under the impact of his wife 's disclosures , he was brought suddenly to the realization that , however brilliant , however far-famed the offender might be , there was a limit to tolerance .
ck20.127.3	post-adj2	Now , under the impact of his wife 's disclosures , he was brought to the realization that there was a limit to tolerance , however brilliant , however far-famed the offender might be suddenly .
ck20.128.0	ref	He tried defiance and openly flaunted his devotion to his half sister , but he soon saw , as did she , that this course if persisted in would involve them in a common ruin .
ck20.128.1	post-adv	He tried defiance and openly flaunted his devotion to his half sister , but , as did she , he soon saw that this course if persisted in would involve them in a common ruin .
ck20.128.2	pre-adv	He tried defiance and openly flaunted his devotion to his half sister , but he soon saw , as did she , that this course would involve them in a common ruin if persisted in .
ck20.129.0	ref	For the moment there was no woman in his life , and it was this vacuum that had given Claire her opportunity .
ck20.129.1	dat-np-np	For the moment there was no woman in his life , and it was this vacuum that had given her opportunity to Claire .
ck20.132.0	ref	He refused to bring Claire to it even as an occasional visitor , claiming that his every move was watched by spies of the Milbankes .
ck20.132.1	post-adj2	He refused to bring Claire even as an occasional visitor to it , claiming that his every move was watched by spies of the Milbankes .
ck21.2.0	ref	He had thought that the suggestion of taking it himself would tip the colonel in the direction of serving his own order , but the slip of paper was folded and absently thrust into the colonel 's belt .
ck21.2.1	dat-np-np	He had thought that the suggestion of taking himself to it would tip the colonel in the direction of serving his own order , but the slip of paper was folded and absently thrust into the colonel 's belt .
ck21.19.0	ref	The colonel crouched tensely on one of the folding chairs , methodically tearing at his thumbnail .
ck21.19.1	post-adj2	The colonel crouched on one of the folding chairs tensely , methodically tearing at his thumbnail .
ck21.25.0	ref	The place smelled strongly of rank , fertile earth , rotting wood and urine .
ck21.25.1	post-adj2	The place smelled of rank , fertile earth , rotting wood and urine strongly .
ck21.28.0	ref	There was no place to sit , but Watson walked slowly from the ladder to the window slits and back , stooping slightly to avoid striking his head on the heavy beams .
ck21.28.1	post-adj3	There was no place to sit , but Watson walked from the ladder slowly to the window slits and back , stooping slightly to avoid striking his head on the heavy beams .
ck21.28.2	post-adj3	There was no place to sit , but Watson walked to the window slits from the ladder slowly and back , stooping slightly to avoid striking his head on the heavy beams .
ck21.28.3	post-adj3	There was no place to sit , but Watson walked slowly to the window slits from the ladder and back , stooping slightly to avoid striking his head on the heavy beams .
ck21.28.4	post-adj3	There was no place to sit , but Watson walked to the window slits slowly from the ladder and back , stooping slightly to avoid striking his head on the heavy beams .
ck21.28.5	post-adj3	There was no place to sit , but Watson walked from the ladder to the window slits slowly and back , stooping slightly to avoid striking his head on the heavy beams .
ck21.33.0	ref	Someone had hauled him over the side , and he had remained silent while they crossed .
ck21.33.1	post-adv	Someone had hauled him over the side , and he while they crossed had remained silent .
ck21.36.0	ref	When the boat had touched , the weaker ones and the two wounded men had been lifted out and carried away by the soldiers .
ck21.36.1	pre-adv	The weaker ones and the two wounded men had been lifted out and carried away by the soldiers , when the boat had touched .
ck21.42.0	ref	He had peered through the darkness at the rampart .
ck21.42.1	post-adj2	He had peered at the rampart through the darkness .
ck21.43.0	ref	The men he would take back across the river stood there , but he turned away from them .
ck21.43.1	post-adj2	The men he would take across the river back stood there , but he turned away from them .
ck21.46.0	ref	Though Watson carefully ignored the man , he could not deny his presence .
ck21.46.1	pre-adv	He could not deny his presence , though Watson carefully ignored the man .
ck21.47.0	ref	Perhaps it would be better to speak to him , since silence could not exorcise his form .
ck21.47.1	post-adv	Perhaps it , since silence could not exorcise his form , would be better to speak to him .
ck21.48.0	ref	Watson glanced briefly at him , seeing only a body rigidly erect behind the languid banner .
ck21.48.1	post-adj2	Watson glanced at him briefly , seeing only a body rigidly erect behind the languid banner .
ck21.50.0	ref	If my pass is approved , I may be a half hour .
ck21.50.1	pre-adv	I may be a half hour , if my pass is approved .
ck21.55.0	ref	It was easier to think now , Watson decided .
ck21.55.1	quote	It was easier to think now , decided Watson .
ck21.63.0	ref	What in the name of God was he doing , crouched in a timbered pit on the wrong bank of the river ?
ck21.63.1	post-adj2	What in the name of God was he doing , crouched on the wrong bank of the river in a timbered pit ?
ck21.73.0	ref	To tell John something he would find out for himself .
ck21.73.1	dat-np-np	To tell something he would find out for himself to John .
ck21.83.0	ref	The flat-bottomed boat swung slowly to the pull of the current .
ck21.83.1	post-adj2	The flat-bottomed boat swung to the pull of the current slowly .
ck21.86.0	ref	Watson stared at them curiously .
ck21.86.1	post-adj2	Watson stared curiously at them .
ck21.90.0	ref	They moved toward the skiffs with shocking eagerness , elbowing and shoving .
ck21.90.1	post-adj2	They moved with shocking eagerness toward the skiffs , elbowing and shoving .
ck21.92.0	ref	They crept down the muddy slope toward the waiting boats .
ck21.92.1	post-adj2	They crept toward the waiting boats down the muddy slope .
ck21.100.0	ref	He paced forward unsteadily , leaning too far back , his head tilted oddly .
ck21.100.1	post-adj2	He paced unsteadily forward , leaning too far back , his head tilted oddly .
ck21.101.0	ref	His steps were short and stiff , and , with his head thrown back , his progress was a supercilious strut .
ck21.101.1	pre-adv	His steps were short and stiff , and , his progress was a supercilious strut , with his head thrown back .
ck21.102.0	ref	He appeared to be peering haughtily down his nose at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom .
ck21.102.1	post-adj3	He appeared to be peering down his nose haughtily at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom .
ck21.102.2	post-adj3	He appeared to be peering at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom down his nose haughtily .
ck21.102.3	post-adj3	He appeared to be peering haughtily at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom down his nose .
ck21.102.4	post-adj3	He appeared to be peering at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom haughtily down his nose .
ck21.102.5	post-adj3	He appeared to be peering down his nose at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom haughtily .
ck21.108.0	ref	He sank back on his thin haunches like a weary hound .
ck21.108.1	post-adj3	He sank on his thin haunches back like a weary hound .
ck21.108.2	post-adj3	He sank like a weary hound on his thin haunches back .
ck21.108.3	post-adj3	He sank back like a weary hound on his thin haunches .
ck21.108.4	post-adj3	He sank like a weary hound back on his thin haunches .
ck21.108.5	post-adj3	He sank on his thin haunches like a weary hound back .
ck21.114.0	ref	If he failed to reach the riverbank in five minutes , say , then the skiffs would pull away and leave him groping in the mud .
ck21.114.1	pre-adv	Then the skiffs would pull away and leave him groping in the mud , if he failed to reach the riverbank in five minutes , say .
ck21.121.0	ref	The guards came to life with astonishing menace .
ck21.121.1	post-adj2	The guards came with astonishing menace to life .
ck21.124.0	ref	One man dropped to his knee for better aim .
ck21.124.1	post-adj2	One man dropped for better aim to his knee .
ck21.126.0	ref	The guards lowered their rifles and their rifles and peered at Watson with sullen , puzzled faces .
ck21.126.1	post-adj2	The guards lowered their rifles and their rifles and peered with sullen , puzzled faces at Watson .
ck21.174.0	ref	Watson spoke bewilderedly to the dark night flecked with pine-knot torches .
ck21.174.1	post-adj2	Watson spoke to the dark night flecked with pine-knot torches bewilderedly .
ck21.177.0	ref	Intelligence jabbed at him accusingly .
ck21.177.1	post-adj2	Intelligence jabbed accusingly at him .
ck21.182.0	ref	In war , on a night like this , it was only the outward emotions that mattered , what could be flung out into the darkness to damage others .
ck21.182.1	pre-adj2	On a night like this , in war , it was only the outward emotions that mattered , what could be flung out into the darkness to damage others .
ck21.193.0	ref	What had he thought of , to go to John , grovel and beg understanding ? To confess with a canvas chair as a prie-dieu , gouging at his heart until a rough and stupid hand bade him rise and go ?
ck21.193.1	post-adv	What had he thought of , to go to John , grovel and beg understanding ? To confess with a canvas chair as a prie-dieu , until a rough and stupid hand bade him rise and go gouging at his heart ?
ck22.1.0	ref	I would not want to be one of those writers who begin each morning by exclaiming , `` O Gogol , O Chekhov , O Thackeray and Dickens , what would you have made of a bomb shelter ornamented with four plaster-of-Paris ducks , a birdbath , and three composition gnomes with long beards and red mobcaps '' ?
ck22.1.1	post-adj2	I would not want to be one of those writers who begin by exclaiming , `` O Gogol , O Chekhov , O Thackeray and Dickens , what would you have made of a bomb shelter ornamented with four plaster-of-Paris ducks , a birdbath , and three composition gnomes with long beards and red mobcaps '' each morning ?
ck22.2.0	ref	As I say , I would n't want to begin a day like this , but I often wonder what the dead would have done .
ck22.2.1	pre-adv	I would n't want to begin a day like this , as I say , but I often wonder what the dead would have done .
ck22.6.0	ref	It bulks under a veil of thin , new grass , like some embarrassing fact of physicalness , and I think Mrs. Pastern set out the statuary to soften its meaning .
ck22.6.1	post-adj2	It bulks like some embarrassing fact of physicalness , under a veil of thin , new grass , and I think Mrs. Pastern set out the statuary to soften its meaning .
ck22.10.0	ref	Offer her a cup of tea and she would say , `` Why , these cups look just like a set I gave to the Salvation Army last year '' .
ck22.10.1	dat-np-np	Offer a cup of tea to her and she would say , `` Why , these cups look just like a set I gave to the Salvation Army last year '' .
ck22.11.0	ref	Show her the new swimming pool and she would say , slapping her ankle , `` I suppose this must be where you breed your gigantic mosquitoes '' .
ck22.11.1	dat-np-np	Show the new swimming pool to her and she would say , slapping her ankle , `` I suppose this must be where you breed your gigantic mosquitoes '' .
ck22.12.0	ref	Hand her a chair and she would say , `` Why , it 's a nice imitation of those Queen Anne chairs I inherited from Grandmother Delancy '' .
ck22.12.1	dat-np-np	Hand a chair to her and she would say , `` Why , it 's a nice imitation of those Queen Anne chairs I inherited from Grandmother Delancy '' .
ck22.24.0	ref	The boundless blue air was stretched over the zenith like the skin of a drum .
ck22.24.1	post-adj2	The boundless blue air was stretched like the skin of a drum over the zenith .
ck22.25.0	ref	Leaving her house one late afternoon , Mrs. Pastern stopped to admire the October light .
ck22.25.1	dat-np-np	Leaving one late afternoon to her house , Mrs. Pastern stopped to admire the October light .
ck22.29.0	ref	Her house stood on a rise of ground , and before she got into her car she looked at the houses below .
ck22.29.1	pre-adv	Her house stood on a rise of ground , and she looked at the houses below before she got into her car .
ck22.43.0	ref	The contributions were ahead of what she had got the previous year , and while the money , of course , was not hers , it excited her to stuff her kit with big checks .
ck22.43.1	pre-adv	The contributions were ahead of what she had got the previous year , and it excited her to stuff her kit with big checks , while the money , of course , was not hers .
ck22.44.0	ref	She stopped at the Surcliffes ' after dusk , and had a Scotch-and-soda .
ck22.44.1	post-adj2	She stopped after dusk at the Surcliffes ' , and had a Scotch-and-soda .
ck22.45.0	ref	She stayed too late , and when she left , it was dark and time to go home and cook supper for her husband .
ck22.45.1	pre-adv	She stayed too late , and it was dark and time to go home and cook supper for her husband , when she left .
ck22.46.0	ref	`` I got a hundred and sixty dollars for the hepatitis fund '' , she said excitedly when he walked in .
ck22.46.1	post-adv	When he walked in `` I got a hundred and sixty dollars for the hepatitis fund '' , she said excitedly .
ck22.46.2	quote	`` I got a hundred and sixty dollars for the hepatitis fund '' , said she excitedly when he walked in .
ck22.48.0	ref	I want to get my kit in tomorrow morning -- would you mind doing them while I cook the dinner '' ?
ck22.48.1	dat-np-np	I want to get tomorrow morning in to my kit -- would you mind doing them while I cook the dinner '' ?
ck22.48.2	post-adv	I want to get my kit in tomorrow morning -- would you mind while I cook the dinner doing them '' ?
ck22.49.0	ref	`` But I do n't know the Flannagans '' , Charlie Pastern said .
ck22.49.1	quote	`` But I do n't know the Flannagans '' , said Charlie Pastern .
ck22.50.0	ref	`` Nobody does , but they gave me ten last year '' .
ck22.50.1	dat-np-np	`` Nobody does , but they gave ten to me last year '' .
ck22.52.0	ref	He was happy enough to take the convertible and race up the hill to the Blevins ' , thinking that they might give him a drink .
ck22.52.1	dat-np-np	He was happy enough to take the convertible and race up the hill to the Blevins ' , thinking that they might give a drink to him .
ck22.53.0	ref	But the Blevins were away ; their maid gave him an envelope with a check in it and shut the door .
ck22.53.1	dat-np-np	But the Blevins were away ; their maid gave an envelope with a check in it to him and shut the door .
ck22.55.0	ref	The name encouraged him , because he always felt that he could handle the Irish .
ck22.55.1	post-adv	Because he always felt that he could handle the Irish , the name encouraged him .
ck22.58.0	ref	She took a good look at herself in the mirror before she turned and , walking with very small steps , started toward the door .
ck22.58.1	post-adv	Before she turned and , walking with very small steps , started toward the door she took a good look at herself in the mirror .
ck22.58.2	post-adj2	She took a good look in the mirror at herself before she turned and , walking with very small steps , started toward the door .
ck22.63.0	ref	`` Your wife just called '' , she said , separating one word from another , exactly like a child .
ck22.63.1	quote	`` Your wife just called '' , said , separating she one word from another , exactly like a child .
ck22.63.2	post-adj2	`` Your wife just called '' , she said , separating one word exactly like a child , from another .
ck22.64.0	ref	`` And I am not sure that I have any cash -- any money , that is -- but if you will wait just a minute I will write you out a check if I can find my checkbook .
ck22.64.1	dat-np-np	`` And I am not sure that I have any cash -- any money , that is -- but if you will wait just a minute I will write a check out to you if I can find my checkbook .
ck22.64.2	post-adv	`` And I am not sure that I have any cash -- any money , that is -- but if you will wait just a minute I if I can find my checkbook will write you out a check .
ck22.64.3	pre-adv	`` And I am not sure that I have any cash -- any money , that is -- but I will write you out a check if I can find my checkbook if you will wait just a minute .
ck22.66.0	ref	A fire had just been lighted , he saw , and things had been set out for drinks , and , like any stray , his response to these comforts was instantaneous .
ck22.66.1	quote	A fire had just been lighted , saw he , and things had been set out for drinks , and , like any stray , his response to these comforts was instantaneous .
ck22.68.0	ref	Travelling home on a late train ?
ck22.68.1	post-adj2	Travelling on a late train home ?
ck22.72.0	ref	`` I am terribly sorry to keep you waiting '' , she said , `` but wo n't you make yourself a little drink while you wait ?
ck22.72.1	dat-np-np	`` I am terribly sorry to keep you waiting '' , she said , `` but wo n't you make a little drink to yourself while you wait ?
ck22.72.2	post-adv	`` I am terribly sorry to keep you waiting '' , she said , `` but while you wait wo n't you make yourself a little drink ?
ck22.72.3	quote	`` I am terribly sorry to keep you waiting '' , said she , `` but wo n't you make yourself a little drink while you wait ?
ck22.74.0	ref	`` What train does Mr. Flannagan come out on '' ?
ck22.74.1	post-adj2	`` What train does Mr. Flannagan come on out '' ?
ck22.75.0	ref	`` Mr. Flannagan is away '' , she said .
ck22.75.1	quote	`` Mr. Flannagan is away '' , said she .
ck22.77.0	ref	`` Mr. Flannagan has been away for six weeks . ''
ck22.77.1	post-adj2	`` Mr. Flannagan has been for six weeks away . ''
ck22.78.0	ref	`` I 'll have a drink , then , if you 'll have one with me '' .
ck22.78.1	post-adv	`` I , if you 'll have one with me , 'll have a drink , then '' .
ck22.91.0	ref	`` I 've seen you , though , before '' , she said with enormous coyness , patting his knee .
ck22.91.1	quote	`` I 've seen you , though , before '' , said she with enormous coyness , patting his knee .
ck22.93.0	ref	The thought of this lonely woman sitting at her window touched him , although he was even more touched by her plumpness .
ck22.93.1	post-adv	Although he was even more touched by her plumpness , the thought of this lonely woman sitting at her window touched him .
ck22.95.0	ref	It serves merely as an excess cushion for the rest of the carcass .
ck22.95.1	post-adj2	It serves as an excess cushion for the rest of the carcass merely .
ck22.98.0	ref	`` I 've never done this before '' , she said later , when he was arranging himself to leave .
ck22.98.1	post-adv	`` I 've never done this before '' , when he was arranging himself to leave , she said later .
ck22.101.0	ref	`` I 've never done this before '' , they always said , shaking their dresses down over their white shoulders .
ck22.101.1	quote	`` I 've never done this before '' , always said , shaking they their dresses down over their white shoulders .
ck22.102.0	ref	`` I 've never done this before '' , they always said , waiting for the elevator in the hotel corridor .
ck22.102.1	quote	`` I 've never done this before '' , always said , waiting they for the elevator in the hotel corridor .
ck22.103.0	ref	`` I 've never done this before '' , they always said , pouring another whiskey .
ck22.103.1	quote	`` I 've never done this before '' , always said , pouring they another whiskey .
ck22.104.0	ref	`` I 've never done this before '' , they always said , putting on their stockings .
ck22.104.1	quote	`` I 've never done this before '' , always said , putting they on their stockings .
ck22.106.0	ref	`` Where have you been '' ? Mrs. Pastern asked sadly , when he came in .
ck22.106.1	post-adv	When he came in , `` where have you been '' ? Mrs. Pastern asked sadly .
ck22.110.0	ref	`` He came home unexpectedly '' .
ck22.110.1	post-adj2	`` He came unexpectedly home '' .
ck22.116.0	ref	He thought first of his son and daughter , away at college .
ck22.116.1	post-adj2	He thought of his son and daughter , away at college first .
ck22.124.0	ref	Maple and ash , beech and elm , one hundred to win on Three in the fourth , fifty to win on Six in the third , one hundred to win on Two in the eighth .
ck22.124.1	post-adj2	Maple and ash , beech and elm , one hundred to win in the fourth on Three , fifty to win on Six in the third , one hundred to win on Two in the eighth .
ck22.125.0	ref	Children walking home from school would scuff through what seemed to be his foliage .
ck22.125.1	post-adj2	Children walking from school home would scuff through what seemed to be his foliage .
ck22.127.0	ref	There are , he thought , so few true means of forgetfulness in this life that why should he shun the medicine even when the medicine seemed , as it did , a little crude ?
ck22.127.1	post-adv	There are , he thought , so few true means of forgetfulness in this life that why even when the medicine seemed , as it did , a little crude should he shun the medicine ?
ck22.127.2	post-adv	There are , he thought , so few true means of forgetfulness in this life that why should he shun the medicine even when , as it did , the medicine seemed a little crude ?
ck23.3.0	ref	But there was a look about her mouth as though she were tasting lemons .
ck23.3.1	post-adv	As though she were tasting lemons but there was a look about her mouth .
ck23.4.0	ref	She grasped the chair arms and brought her thin body upright , like a bird alert for flight .
ck23.4.1	post-adj2	She grasped the chair arms and brought her thin body like a bird alert for flight , upright .
ck23.5.0	ref	She turned and walked stiffly into the parlor to the dainty-legged escritoire , warped and cracked now from fifty years in an atmosphere of sea spray .
ck23.5.1	post-adj3	She turned and walked into the parlor stiffly to the dainty-legged escritoire , warped and cracked now from fifty years in an atmosphere of sea spray .
ck23.5.2	post-adj3	She turned and walked to the dainty-legged escritoire , warped and cracked now from fifty years in an atmosphere of sea spray into the parlor stiffly .
ck23.5.3	post-adj3	She turned and walked stiffly to the dainty-legged escritoire , warped and cracked now from fifty years in an atmosphere of sea spray into the parlor .
ck23.5.4	post-adj3	She turned and walked to the dainty-legged escritoire , warped and cracked now from fifty years in an atmosphere of sea spray stiffly into the parlor .
ck23.5.5	post-adj3	She turned and walked into the parlor to the dainty-legged escritoire , warped and cracked now from fifty years in an atmosphere of sea spray stiffly .
ck23.7.0	ref	Once her trembling hand , with the pen grasped tight in it , was pressed against the paper the words came sharply , smoothly , as authoritatively as they would dropping from her own lips .
ck23.7.1	pre-adv	The words came sharply , smoothly , as authoritatively as they would dropping from her own lips once her trembling hand , with the pen grasped tight in it , was pressed against the paper .
ck23.9.0	ref	`` Please come down as soon as you conveniently can '' , the upright letters stalked from the broad-nibbed pen , `` I have an important matter to discuss with you '' .
ck23.9.1	post-adj2	`` Please come as soon as you conveniently can down '' , the upright letters stalked from the broad-nibbed pen , `` I have an important matter to discuss with you '' .
ck23.11.0	ref	I should be obliged if you could make other arrangements for your daughters .
ck23.11.1	post-adv	I should if you could make other arrangements for your daughters be obliged .
ck23.12.0	ref	You may stay as long as you wish , of course , but if arranging for the care of the girls must take time into account , I think a day or two should be enough to finish our business in '' .
ck23.12.1	pre-adv	You may stay as long as you wish , of course , but I think a day or two should be enough to finish our business in , if arranging for the care of the girls must take time into account '' .
ck23.12.2	post-adj2	You may stay of course , as long as you wish , but if arranging for the care of the girls must take time into account , I think a day or two should be enough to finish our business in '' .
ck23.13.0	ref	To Mark : `` Please give my regards to Myra '' .
ck23.13.1	dat-np-pp	To Mark : `` Please give Myra my regards '' .
ck23.15.0	ref	Then she went back to the wicker chair and resolutely adjusted her eyes to the glare on the water .
ck23.15.1	post-adj2	Then she went to the wicker chair back and resolutely adjusted her eyes to the glare on the water .
ck23.16.0	ref	`` My nephews will be coming down '' , she said that evening as Angelina brought her dinner into the dining room , the whole meal on a vast linen-covered tray .
ck23.16.1	post-adv	`` My nephews will be coming down '' , as Angelina brought her dinner into the dining room , the whole meal on a vast linen-covered tray she said that evening .
ck23.17.0	ref	She looked at the girl speculatively from eyes which had paled with the years ; from the early evening lights of them which had first startled Izaak to look at her in an uncousinly way , they had faded to a near-absence of color which had , possibly from her constant looking at the water , something of the light of the sea in them .
ck23.17.1	post-adj3	She looked speculatively at the girl from eyes which had paled with the years ; from the early evening lights of them which had first startled Izaak to look at her in an uncousinly way , they had faded to a near-absence of color which had , possibly from her constant looking at the water , something of the light of the sea in them .
ck23.17.2	post-adj3	She looked from eyes which had paled with the years speculatively at the girl ; from the early evening lights of them which had first startled Izaak to look at her in an uncousinly way , they had faded to a near-absence of color which had , possibly from her constant looking at the water , something of the light of the sea in them .
ck23.17.3	post-adj3	She looked at the girl from eyes which had paled with the years speculatively ; from the early evening lights of them which had first startled Izaak to look at her in an uncousinly way , they had faded to a near-absence of color which had , possibly from her constant looking at the water , something of the light of the sea in them .
ck23.17.4	post-adj3	She looked from eyes which had paled with the years at the girl speculatively ; from the early evening lights of them which had first startled Izaak to look at her in an uncousinly way , they had faded to a near-absence of color which had , possibly from her constant looking at the water , something of the light of the sea in them .
ck23.17.5	post-adj3	She looked speculatively from eyes which had paled with the years at the girl ; from the early evening lights of them which had first startled Izaak to look at her in an uncousinly way , they had faded to a near-absence of color which had , possibly from her constant looking at the water , something of the light of the sea in them .
ck23.20.0	ref	`` That will be so nice for you , Mrs. Packard '' , she said .
ck23.20.1	quote	`` That will be so nice for you , Mrs. Packard '' , said she .
ck23.21.0	ref	Her voice was ripe and full and her teeth flashed again in Sicilian brilliance before the warm curved lips met and her mouth settled in repose .
ck23.21.1	post-adv	Her voice was ripe and full and before the warm curved lips met and her mouth settled in repose her teeth flashed again in Sicilian brilliance .
ck23.21.2	post-adj2	Her voice was ripe and full and her teeth flashed in Sicilian brilliance again before the warm curved lips met and her mouth settled in repose .
ck23.23.0	ref	`` You remember them , I suppose '' ?
ck23.23.1	quote	`` You remember them , suppose I '' ?
ck23.24.0	ref	She glinted suspiciously at the dish before her : `` blowfish .
ck23.24.1	post-adj2	She glinted at the dish before her : `` blowfish suspiciously .
ck23.27.0	ref	Then she looked at the old woman again , her eyes calm .
ck23.27.1	post-adj2	Then she looked again at the old woman , her eyes calm .
ck23.28.0	ref	`` Yes '' , she said , `` I remember that they came here every summer .
ck23.28.1	post-adj2	`` Yes '' , she said , `` I remember that they came every summer here .
ck23.29.0	ref	I used to play with the older one sometimes , when he 'd let me .
ck23.29.1	post-adv	When he 'd let me , I used to play with the older one sometimes .
ck23.31.0	ref	The name fell with lazy affectionate remembrance from her lips .
ck23.31.1	post-adj2	The name fell from her lips with lazy affectionate remembrance .
ck23.39.0	ref	When the fate of the individual is visited on the group , then -LRB- the warm sweet butter dripped from her raised trembling fork and she pushed her head forward belligerently -RRB- , ah , then the true bitterness of existence could be tasted .
ck23.39.1	pre-adv	Then -LRB- the warm sweet butter dripped from her raised trembling fork and she pushed her head forward belligerently -RRB- , ah , then the true bitterness of existence could be tasted , when the fate of the individual is visited on the group .
ck23.46.0	ref	It seemed to her , as it seemed each night , that the gloom drew itself in and became densest at the table 's empty chairs , giving her the frequent illusion that she dined with shadows .
ck23.46.1	dat-np-np	It seemed to her , as it seemed each night , that the gloom drew itself in and became densest at the table 's empty chairs , giving the frequent illusion that she dined with shadows to her .
ck23.46.2	post-adv	As it seemed each night , it seemed to her that the gloom drew itself in and became densest at the table 's empty chairs , giving her the frequent illusion that she dined with shadows .
ck23.47.0	ref	Here , too , she talked low , quirking her head at one or another of the places , most often at Izaak 's armchair which faced her across the long table .
ck23.47.1	pre-adj2	Too , here , she talked low , quirking her head at one or another of the places , most often at Izaak 's armchair which faced her across the long table .
ck23.49.0	ref	She thought again of her children , those two who had died young , before the later science which might have saved them could attach even a label to their separate malignancies .
ck23.49.1	post-adv	She thought again of her children , those two who , before the later science which might have saved them could attach even a label to their separate malignancies , had died young .
ck23.49.2	post-adj2	She thought of her children , those two who had died young , before the later science which might have saved them could attach even a label to their separate malignancies again .
ck23.55.0	ref	In the cruel clearness of her memory the boy remained unchanged , quick with the delight of laughter , and the pain with which she recalled that short destroyed childhood was still unendurable to her .
ck23.55.1	post-adj2	In the cruel clearness of her memory the boy remained unchanged , quick with the delight of laughter , and the pain with which she recalled that short destroyed childhood was to her unendurable still .
ck23.57.0	ref	The brothers drove down together in Mark 's small red sports car , Mark at the wheel .
ck23.57.1	post-adj3	The brothers drove together down in Mark 's small red sports car , Mark at the wheel .
ck23.57.2	post-adj3	The brothers drove in Mark 's small red sports car together down , Mark at the wheel .
ck23.57.3	post-adj3	The brothers drove down in Mark 's small red sports car together , Mark at the wheel .
ck23.57.4	post-adj3	The brothers drove , in Mark 's small red sports car , down together Mark at the wheel .
ck23.57.5	post-adj3	The brothers drove together in Mark 's small red sports car down , Mark at the wheel .
ck23.61.0	ref	And it presented itself to him as it would to any stranger , impervious , complete in itself .
ck23.61.1	post-adv	As it would to any stranger , impervious , complete in itself and it presented itself to him .
ck23.62.0	ref	There was stability there , too -- a color which his life had had once .
ck23.62.1	post-adj2	There was stability too , there -- a color which his life had had once .
ck23.63.0	ref	That is what childhood is , he told himself .
ck23.63.1	quote	That is what childhood is , told he himself .
ck23.68.0	ref	They had closed over , absolutely , with the sealing of old Izaak 's grave .
ck23.68.1	post-adj2	They had closed over , with the sealing of old Izaak 's grave , absolutely .
ck23.72.0	ref	`` I suppose it has to do with the property '' , Mark had said over the telephone when they had discussed their receipt of the letters .
ck23.72.1	post-adv	`` I suppose it has to do with the property '' , Mark when they had discussed their receipt of the letters had said over the telephone .
ck23.79.0	ref	The vacation traffic was becoming heavier as they approached the sea .
ck23.79.1	post-adv	The vacation traffic as they approached the sea was becoming heavier .
ck23.80.0	ref	`` She did n't mention bringing Myra '' , Mark said , maneuvering the car into the next lane .
ck23.80.1	quote	`` She did n't mention bringing Myra '' , said , maneuvering Mark the car into the next lane .
ck23.82.0	ref	They 've never met , you know .
ck23.82.1	quote	They 've never met , know you .
ck23.85.0	ref	He gave Abel a quick glance and moved closer to the wheel , hugging it to him , and Abel caught this briefest of allusions to guilt .
ck23.85.1	dat-np-np	He gave a quick glance to Abel and moved closer to the wheel , hugging it to him , and Abel caught this briefest of allusions to guilt .
ck23.86.0	ref	`` I imagine the old girl has n't missed us much '' , Mark added , his eyes on the road .
ck23.86.1	quote	`` I imagine the old girl has n't missed us much '' , added Mark , his eyes on the road .
ck23.93.0	ref	He turned from the flying trees to look ahead and saw with an inward boy 's eye again the great fieldstone house which , built on one of the many acres of ancestral land bordering the west harbor , had been Izaak 's bride-gift to his cousin-wife as the last century ended .
ck23.93.1	post-adv	He turned from the flying trees to look ahead and saw with an inward boy 's eye again the great fieldstone house which , built on one of the many acres of ancestral land bordering the west harbor , as the last century ended had been Izaak 's bride-gift to his cousin-wife .
ck23.95.0	ref	`` Remember the Starbird ? '' Mark asked , and Abel lifted his eyes from the double lines in the middle of the road , the twin white ribbons which the car swallowed rapidly as it ascended the crest of the hill and came down .
ck23.95.1	post-adv	`` Remember the Starbird ? '' Mark asked , and Abel lifted his eyes from the double lines in the middle of the road , the twin white ribbons which as it ascended the crest of the hill and came down the car swallowed rapidly .
ck23.97.0	ref	There was the day Uncle Izaak had , in an unexpected grandiose gesture , handed over the pretty sloop to Abel for keeps , on condition that he never fail to let his brother accompany him whenever younger the boy wished .
ck23.97.1	post-adv	There was the day Uncle Izaak had , in an unexpected grandiose gesture , handed over the pretty sloop to Abel for keeps , on condition that he never fail to let whenever younger the boy wished his brother accompany him .
ck23.98.0	ref	The two of them had developed into a remarkable sailing team all of this happening in a time of their lives when their youth and their brotherhood knitted them together as no other time or circumstance could .
ck23.98.1	post-adv	The two of them had developed into a remarkable sailing team all of this happening in a time of their lives when as no other time or circumstance could their youth and their brotherhood knitted them together .
ck23.100.0	ref	He saw the Starbird as she lay , her slender mast up and gently turning , its point describing constant languid circles against a cumulus sky .
ck23.100.1	post-adv	As she lay , her slender mast up and gently turning , its point describing constant languid circles against a cumulus sky he saw the Starbird .
ck23.102.0	ref	The Starbird had been long at the bottom of the bay .
ck23.102.1	post-adj2	The Starbird had been at the bottom of the bay long .
ck23.103.0	ref	They came unexpectedly upon the sea .
ck23.103.1	post-adj2	They came upon the sea unexpectedly .
ck23.104.0	ref	Meeting it without preparation as they did , robbed of anticipation , a common disappointment seized them .
ck23.104.1	post-adv	As they did meeting it without preparation , robbed of anticipation , a common disappointment seized them .
ck23.105.0	ref	They were climbing the hill in the night when the headlights abruptly probed solid blackness , became two parallel luminous tubes which broadened out into a faint mist of light and ended .
ck23.105.1	post-adv	They when the headlights abruptly probed solid blackness , became two parallel luminous tubes which broadened out into a faint mist of light and ended were climbing the hill in the night .
ck24.2.0	ref	I decided I hated the Pedersen kid too , dying in our kitchen while I was away where I could n't watch , dying just to entertain Hans and making me go up snapping steps and down a drafty hall , Pa lumped under the covers at the end like dung covered with snow , snoring and whistling .
ck24.2.1	post-adv	I decided I hated the Pedersen kid too , while I was away where I could n't watch dying in our kitchen , dying just to entertain Hans and making me go up snapping steps and down a drafty hall , Pa lumped under the covers at the end like dung covered with snow , snoring and whistling .
ck24.4.0	ref	He 'd not care about getting waked so he could give up some of his whisky to a slit of a kid and maybe lose one of his hiding places in the bargain .
ck24.4.1	post-adv	He 'd not care about so he could give up some of his whisky to a slit of a kid and maybe lose one of his hiding places in the bargain getting waked .
ck24.5.0	ref	That would make him mad enough if he was sober .
ck24.5.1	post-adv	That if he was sober would make him mad enough .
ck24.6.0	ref	I did n't hurry though it was cold and the Pedersen kid was in the kitchen .
ck24.6.1	post-adv	I though it was cold and the Pedersen kid was in the kitchen did n't hurry .
ck24.7.0	ref	He was all shoveled up like I thought he 'd be .
ck24.7.1	post-adv	Like I thought he 'd be he was all shoveled up .
ck24.9.0	ref	I think his name stopped the snoring but he did n't move except to roll a little when I shoved him .
ck24.9.1	post-adv	I think his name stopped the snoring but he did n't move except when I shoved him to roll a little .
ck24.10.0	ref	The covers slid down his skinny neck so I saw his head , fuzzed like a dandelion gone to seed , but his face was turned to the wall -- there was the pale shadow of his nose on the plaster -- and I thought , Well you do n't look much like a pig-drunk bully now .
ck24.10.1	post-adv	So I saw his head , fuzzed like a dandelion gone to seed the covers slid down his skinny neck , but his face was turned to the wall -- there was the pale shadow of his nose on the plaster -- and I thought , Well you do n't look much like a pig-drunk bully now .
ck24.17.0	ref	He always slept close to the wall so you had to lean to reach him .
ck24.17.1	post-adv	So you had to lean to reach him he always slept close to the wall .
ck24.21.0	ref	When his arm came up I ducked away but it caught me on the side of the neck , watering my eyes , and I backed off to cough .
ck24.21.1	pre-adv	I ducked away when his arm came up but it caught me on the side of the neck , watering my eyes , and I backed off to cough .
ck24.27.0	ref	He was bitter when he missed .
ck24.27.1	post-adv	When he missed he was bitter .
ck24.48.0	ref	That 's where he was when Hans found him '' .
ck24.48.1	post-adv	When Hans found him that 's where he was '' .
ck24.87.0	ref	He might not have gone that far if Pa had n't been locked in laughing fit to shake the house .
ck24.87.1	post-adv	He might not if Pa had n't been locked in laughing fit to shake the house have gone that far .
ck24.88.0	ref	That pot put Pa in an awful good humor whenever he thought of it .
ck24.88.1	post-adv	Whenever he thought of it that pot put Pa in an awful good humor .
ck24.93.0	ref	Water from the snow and water from the towels had run off the kid to the table where the dough was , and the dough was turning pasty , sticking to the kid 's back and behind .
ck24.93.1	post-adj2	Water from the snow and water from the towels had run to the table where the dough was off the kid , and the dough was turning pasty , sticking to the kid 's back and behind .
ck24.96.0	ref	`` He was awake when I left '' .
ck24.96.1	post-adv	When I left `` he was awake '' .
ck24.107.0	ref	`` Go back to sleep most likely '' .
ck24.107.1	post-adj2	`` Go most likely to sleep back '' .
ck24.114.0	ref	If I do n't get some whisky down him he might die .
ck24.114.1	pre-adv	He might die if I do n't get some whisky down him .
ck24.125.0	ref	Get pig-drunk -- that 's what he wants .
ck24.125.1	quote	Get pig-drunk -- 's that what he wants .
ck24.126.0	ref	He do n't care about nothing else at all .
ck24.126.1	post-adj2	He do n't care at all about nothing else .
ck24.131.0	ref	`` I 'll get the spirits '' , Ma said .
ck24.131.1	quote	`` I 'll get the spirits '' , said Ma .
ck24.133.0	ref	I was ready to jump but when Ma said she 'd get the whisky it surprised him like it surprised me , and he ran down .
ck24.133.1	post-adv	I was ready to jump but when Ma said she 'd get the whisky like it surprised me it surprised him , and he ran down .
ck24.133.2	pre-adv	I was ready to jump but it surprised him like it surprised me when Ma said she 'd get the whisky , and he ran down .
ck24.134.0	ref	Ma never went near the old man when he was sleeping it off .
ck24.134.1	post-adv	When he was sleeping it off Ma never went near the old man .
ck24.137.0	ref	The first thing every morning when she washed her face she could see the scar on her chin where he 'd cut her with a boot cleat , and maybe she saw him heaving it again , the dirty sock popping out as it flew .
ck24.137.1	post-adv	The first thing every morning when she washed her face she could see the scar on her chin where he 'd cut her with a boot cleat , and maybe she saw him heaving it again , as it flew the dirty sock popping out .
ck24.138.0	ref	It should have been nearly as easy for her to remember that as it was for Big Hans to remember going after the axe while he was still spattered with Pa 's yellow sick insides .
ck24.138.1	post-adv	It should have been nearly as easy for her to remember that as it was for Big Hans to remember while he was still spattered with Pa 's yellow sick insides going after the axe .
ck24.139.0	ref	`` No you wo n't '' , Big Hans said .
ck24.139.1	quote	`` No you wo n't '' , said Big Hans .
ck24.142.0	ref	If we had , then one of us would have had to go instead .
ck24.142.1	pre-adv	Then one of us would have had to go instead , if we had .
ck24.144.0	ref	`` I 'll get more snow '' , I said .
ck24.144.1	quote	`` I 'll get more snow '' , said I .
ck24.148.0	ref	She had surprised Hans like she had surprised me when she said she 'd go , and then she surprised him again when she came back so quick like she must have , because when I came in with the snow she was there with a bottle with three white feathers on its label and Hans was holding it angrily by the throat .
ck24.148.1	post-adv	She like she had surprised me had surprised Hans when she said she 'd go , and then she surprised him again when she came back so quick like she must have , because when I came in with the snow she was there with a bottle with three white feathers on its label and Hans was holding it angrily by the throat .
ck24.148.2	post-adv	She when she said she 'd go had surprised Hans like she had surprised me , and then she surprised him again when she came back so quick like she must have , because when I came in with the snow she was there with a bottle with three white feathers on its label and Hans was holding it angrily by the throat .
ck24.148.3	post-adv	She had surprised Hans like she had surprised me when she said she 'd go , and then when she came back so quick like she must have , because when I came in with the snow she was there with a bottle with three white feathers on its label and Hans was holding it angrily by the throat she surprised him again .
ck24.148.4	post-adv	She had surprised Hans like she had surprised me when she said she 'd go , and then she surprised him again when she came back so quick like she must , because when I came in with the snow she was there with a bottle with three white feathers on its label and Hans was holding it angrily by the throat , have .
ck24.148.5	pre-adv	She had surprised Hans like she had surprised me when she said she 'd go , and then she surprised him again when she came back so quick like she must have , because she was there with a bottle with three white feathers on its label when I came in with the snow and Hans was holding it angrily by the throat .
ck24.149.0	ref	Oh , he was being queer and careful , pawing about in the drawer and holding the bottle like a snake at the length of his arm .
ck24.149.1	post-adj2	Oh , he was being queer and careful , pawing in the drawer about and holding the bottle like a snake at the length of his arm .
ck24.150.0	ref	He was awful angry because he 'd thought Ma was going to do something big , something heroic even , especially for her I know him I know him we felt the same sometimes while Ma was n't thinking about that at all , not anything like that .
ck24.150.1	post-adv	Because he 'd thought Ma was going to do something big , something heroic even , especially for her he was awful angry I know him I know him we felt the same sometimes while Ma was n't thinking about that at all , not anything like that .
ck24.150.2	post-adv	He was awful angry because he 'd thought Ma was going to do something big , something heroic even , especially for her I know him I know him while Ma was n't thinking about that at all , not anything like that we felt the same sometimes .
ck24.154.0	ref	Now Hans had given Ma something of his -- we both had when we thought she was going straight to Pa -- something valuable ; but since she did n't know we 'd given it to her , there was no easy way of getting it back .
ck24.154.1	dat-np-np	Now Hans had given something of his -- we both had when we thought she was going straight to Pa -- something valuable to Ma ; but since she did n't know we 'd given it to her , there was no easy way of getting it back .
ck24.154.2	post-adv	Now Hans had given Ma something of his -- we both when we thought she was going straight to Pa had -- something valuable ; but since she did n't know we 'd given it to her , there was no easy way of getting it back .
ck24.154.3	pre-adv	Now Hans had given Ma something of his -- we both had when we thought she was going straight to Pa -- something valuable ; but there was no easy way of getting it back , since she did n't know we 'd given it to her .
ck24.154.4	dat-np-pp	Now Hans had given Ma something of his -- we both had when we thought she was going straight to Pa -- something valuable ; but since she did n't know we 'd given her it , there was no easy way of getting it back .
ck24.156.0	ref	He was put out too because there was only one way of understanding what she 'd done .
ck24.156.1	post-adv	He because there was only one way of understanding what she 'd done was put out too .
ck24.158.0	ref	She 'd found one and she had n't said a word while Big Hans and I had hunted and hunted as we always did all winter , every winter since the spring that Hans had come and I had looked in the privy and found the first one .
ck24.158.1	post-adv	She 'd found one and she while Big Hans and I had hunted and hunted as we always did all winter , every winter since the spring that Hans had come and I had looked in the privy and found the first one had n't said a word .
ck24.158.2	post-adv	She 'd found one and she had n't said a word while Big Hans and I as we always did all winter , every winter since the spring that Hans had come and I had looked in the privy and found the first one had hunted and hunted .
ck24.162.0	ref	She 'd found it by luck most likely but she had n't said anything and we did n't know how long ago it 'd been or how many other ones she 'd found , saying nothing .
ck24.162.1	post-adj2	She 'd found it most likely by luck but she had n't said anything and we did n't know how long ago it 'd been or how many other ones she 'd found , saying nothing .
ck24.164.0	ref	Sometimes he did n't seem to because he hid them so well he could n't find them himself or because he looked and did n't find anything and figured he had n't hid one after all or had drunk it up .
ck24.164.1	post-adv	Sometimes he because he hid them so well he could n't find them himself or because he looked and did n't find anything and figured he had n't hid one after all or had drunk it up did n't seem to .
ck24.165.0	ref	But he 'd find out about this one because we were using it .
ck24.165.1	post-adv	But he because we were using it 'd find out about this one .
ck24.167.0	ref	If he found out Ma found it -- that 'd be bad .
ck24.167.1	pre-adv	That 'd be bad -- if he found out Ma found it .
ck24.172.0	ref	He did n't figure her at all , and if he found out a woman it 'd be bad .
ck24.172.1	pre-adv	He did n't figure her at all , and it 'd be bad if he found out a woman .
ck24.211.0	ref	I put my arm carefully around him .
ck24.211.1	post-adj2	I put my arm around him carefully .
ck24.215.0	ref	Just hold him like I told you '' .
ck24.215.1	post-adv	Like I told you just hold him '' .
ck25.2.0	ref	There was never a doubt any more how his structures would be received ; it was always the same unqualified success now .
ck25.2.1	post-adj2	There was any more a doubt never how his structures would be received ; it was always the same unqualified success now .
ck25.3.0	ref	He could no longer build anything , whether a private residence in his Pennsylvania county or a church in Brazil , without it being obvious that he had done it , and while here and there he was taken to task for again developing the same airy technique , they were such fanciful and sometimes even playful buildings that the public felt assured by its sense of recognition after a time , a quality of authentic uniqueness about them , which , once established by an artist as his private vision , is no longer disputable as to its other values .
ck25.3.1	pre-adv	He could no longer build anything , whether a private residence in his Pennsylvania county or a church in Brazil , without it being obvious that he had done it , and while here and there he was taken to task for again developing the same airy technique , they were such fanciful and sometimes even playful buildings that the public felt assured by its sense of recognition after a time , a quality of authentic uniqueness about them , which , is no longer disputable as to its other values , once established by an artist as his private vision .
ck25.5.0	ref	He had lived for almost thirty years in this same stone farmhouse with the same wife , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; he rose at half-past six every morning , made himself some French coffee , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes while reading last Sunday 's Herald Tribune and yesterday 's Pittsburgh Gazette , then put on his high-topped farmer 's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop .
ck25.5.1	dat-np-np	He had lived for almost thirty years in this same stone farmhouse with the same wife , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; he rose at half-past six every morning , made some French coffee to himself , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes while reading last Sunday 's Herald Tribune and yesterday 's Pittsburgh Gazette , then put on his high-topped farmer 's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop .
ck25.5.2	post-adv	He had lived for almost thirty years in this same stone farmhouse with the same wife , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; he while reading last Sunday 's Herald Tribune and yesterday 's Pittsburgh Gazette rose at half-past six every morning , made himself some French coffee , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes , then put on his high-topped farmer 's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop .
ck25.5.3	post-adj3	He had lived in this same stone farmhouse for almost thirty years with the same wife , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; he rose at half-past six every morning , made himself some French coffee , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes while reading last Sunday 's Herald Tribune and yesterday 's Pittsburgh Gazette , then put on his high-topped farmer 's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop .
ck25.5.4	post-adj3	He had lived with the same wife in this same stone farmhouse for almost thirty years , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; he rose at half-past six every morning , made himself some French coffee , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes while reading last Sunday 's Herald Tribune and yesterday 's Pittsburgh Gazette , then put on his high-topped farmer 's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop .
ck25.5.5	post-adj3	He had lived for almost thirty years with the same wife in this same stone farmhouse , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; he rose at half-past six every morning , made himself some French coffee , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes while reading last Sunday 's Herald Tribune and yesterday 's Pittsburgh Gazette , then put on his high-topped farmer 's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop .
ck25.5.6	post-adj3	He had lived with the same wife for almost thirty years in this same stone farmhouse , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; he rose at half-past six every morning , made himself some French coffee , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes while reading last Sunday 's Herald Tribune and yesterday 's Pittsburgh Gazette , then put on his high-topped farmer 's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop .
ck25.5.7	post-adj3	He had lived in this same stone farmhouse with the same wife for almost thirty years , a remarkably childish thing in itself ; he rose at half-past six every morning , made himself some French coffee , had his corn flakes and more coffee , smoked four cigarettes while reading last Sunday 's Herald Tribune and yesterday 's Pittsburgh Gazette , then put on his high-topped farmer 's shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop .
ck25.9.0	ref	Everywhere else his ideas lay or hung in visible form : his models , drawings , ten-foot canvases in monochromes from his painting days , and underfoot a windfall of broken-backed books that looked as though their insides had been ransacked by a maniac .
ck25.9.1	post-adv	Everywhere else his ideas lay or hung in visible form : his models , drawings , ten-foot canvases in monochromes from his painting days , and underfoot a windfall of broken-backed books that as though their insides had been ransacked by a maniac looked .
ck25.10.0	ref	Bicycle gear-sets he had once used as the basis of the design for the Camden Cycly Company plant hung on a rope in one corner , and over his desk , next to several old and dusty hats , was a clean pair of roller skates which he occasionally used up and down in front of his house .
ck25.10.1	pre-adj2	Bicycle gear-sets he had once used as the basis of the design for the Camden Cycly Company plant hung on a rope in one corner , and next to several old and dusty hats , over his desk , was a clean pair of roller skates which he occasionally used up and down in front of his house .
ck25.11.0	ref	He worked standing , with his left hand in his pocket as though he were merely stopping for a moment , sketching with the surprised stare of one who was watching another person 's hand .
ck25.11.1	post-adv	He worked , as though he were merely stopping for a moment , standing , with his left hand in his pocket sketching with the surprised stare of one who was watching another person 's hand .
ck25.12.0	ref	Sometimes he would grunt softly to some invisible onlooker beside him , sometimes he would look stern and moralistic as his pencil did what he disapproved .
ck25.12.1	post-adv	Sometimes he would grunt softly to some invisible onlooker beside him , sometimes he as his pencil did what he disapproved would look stern and moralistic .
ck25.12.2	post-adj2	Sometimes he would grunt to some invisible onlooker beside him softly , sometimes he would look stern and moralistic as his pencil did what he disapproved .
ck25.13.0	ref	It all seemed -- if one could have peeked in at him through one of his windows -- as though this broken-nosed man with the muscular arms and wrestler 's neck was merely the caretaker trying his hand at the boss 's work .
ck25.13.1	post-adv	If one could have peeked in at him through one of his windows -- it all seemed as though this broken-nosed man with the muscular arms and wrestler 's neck was merely the caretaker trying his hand at the boss 's work .
ck25.13.2	post-adj2	It all seemed -- if one could have peeked in through one of his windows at him -- as though this broken-nosed man with the muscular arms and wrestler 's neck was merely the caretaker trying his hand at the boss 's work .
ck25.16.0	ref	There are , after all , fortunate souls who hear everything , but only know how to listen to what is good for them , and Stowey was , as things go , a fortunate man .
ck25.16.1	post-adv	There are , after all , fortunate souls who hear everything , but only know how to listen to what is good for them , and , as things go , Stowey was a fortunate man .
ck25.17.0	ref	He left his home the day after New Year 's wearing a mackinaw and sheepskin mittens and without a hat .
ck25.17.1	dat-np-np	He left the day after New Year 's to his home wearing a mackinaw and sheepskin mittens and without a hat .
ck25.20.0	ref	So they parted when she was in an impatient humor .
ck25.20.1	post-adv	When she was in an impatient humor so they parted .
ck25.21.0	ref	When he was bent over behind the wheel of the station wagon , feeling in his trouser cuffs for the ignition key which he had dropped a moment before , she came out of the house with an enormous Rumanian shawl over her head , which she had bought in that country during one of their trips abroad , and handed him a clean handkerchief through the window .
ck25.21.1	dat-np-np	When he was bent over behind the wheel of the station wagon , feeling in his trouser cuffs for the ignition key which he had dropped a moment before , she came out of the house with an enormous Rumanian shawl over her head , which she had bought in that country during one of their trips abroad , and handed a clean handkerchief to him through the window .
ck25.21.2	pre-adv	She came out of the house with an enormous Rumanian shawl over her head , which she had bought in that country during one of their trips abroad , and handed him a clean handkerchief through the window , when he was bent over behind the wheel of the station wagon , feeling in his trouser cuffs for the ignition key which he had dropped a moment before .
ck25.22.0	ref	Finding the key under his shoe , he started the engine , and while it warmed up he turned to her standing there in the dripping fog , and said , `` Defrost the refrigerator '' .
ck25.22.1	pre-adv	Finding the key under his shoe , he started the engine , and he turned to her standing there in the dripping fog , and said , `` Defrost the refrigerator '' while it warmed up .
ck25.23.0	ref	He saw the surprise in her face , and laughed as though it were the funniest expression he had ever seen .
ck25.23.1	post-adv	He as though it were the funniest expression he had ever seen saw the surprise in her face , and laughed .
ck25.24.0	ref	He kept on laughing until she started laughing with him .
ck25.24.1	post-adv	Until she started laughing with him he kept on laughing .
ck25.27.0	ref	Whenever he laughed it was all he was doing .
ck25.27.1	pre-adv	It was all he was doing , whenever he laughed .
ck25.28.0	ref	And she was made to fall in love with him again there in the rutted dirt driveway standing in the cold fog , mad as she was at his going away when he really did n't have to , mad at their both having got older in a life that seemed to have taken no more than a week to go by .
ck25.28.1	post-adv	And she was made to fall in love with him again there in the rutted dirt driveway standing in the cold fog , mad as she was at when he really did n't have to his going away , mad at their both having got older in a life that seemed to have taken no more than a week to go by .
ck25.28.2	post-adj2	And she was made to fall in love with him again in the rutted dirt driveway there standing in the cold fog , mad as she was at his going away when he really did n't have to , mad at their both having got older in a life that seemed to have taken no more than a week to go by .
ck25.30.0	ref	Her eyebrows were definite and heavy and formed two lines moving upward toward a high forehead and a great head of brown hair that fell to her shoulders .
ck25.30.1	post-adj2	Her eyebrows were definite and heavy and formed two lines moving toward a high forehead and a great head of brown hair that fell to her shoulders upward .
ck25.32.0	ref	She was personally sloppy , and when she had colds would blow her nose in the same handkerchief all day and keep it , soaking wet , dangling from her waist , and when she gardened she would eat dinner with dirt on her calves .
ck25.32.1	post-adv	She when she had colds was personally sloppy , and would blow her nose in the same handkerchief all day and keep it , soaking wet , dangling from her waist , and when she gardened she would eat dinner with dirt on her calves .
ck25.32.2	pre-adv	She was personally sloppy , and when she had colds would blow her nose in the same handkerchief all day and keep it , soaking wet , dangling from her waist , and she would eat dinner with dirt on her calves when she gardened .
ck25.32.3	post-adj2	She was personally sloppy , and when she had colds would blow her nose all day in the same handkerchief and keep it , soaking wet , dangling from her waist , and when she gardened she would eat dinner with dirt on her calves .
ck25.33.0	ref	But just when she seemed to have sunk into some depravity of peasanthood she would disappear and come down bathed , brushed , and taking breaths of air , and even with her broken nails her hands would come to rest on a table or a leaf with a thoughtless delicacy , a grace of history , so to speak , and for an instant one saw how ferociously proud she was and adamant on certain questions of personal value .
ck25.33.1	pre-adv	But she would disappear and come down bathed , brushed , and taking breaths of air just when she seemed to have sunk into some depravity of peasanthood , and even with her broken nails her hands would come to rest on a table or a leaf with a thoughtless delicacy , a grace of history , so to speak , and for an instant one saw how ferociously proud she was and adamant on certain questions of personal value .
ck25.34.0	ref	She even spoke differently when she was clean , and she was clean now for his departure and her voice clear and rather sharp .
ck25.34.1	post-adv	When she was clean she even spoke differently , and she was clean now for his departure and her voice clear and rather sharp .
ck25.35.0	ref	`` Now drive carefully , for God 's sake '' ! She called , trying to attain a half humorous resentment at his departure .
ck25.35.1	post-adj2	`` Now drive for God 's sake , carefully '' ! She called , trying to attain a half humorous resentment at his departure .
ck25.36.0	ref	But he did not notice , and was already backing the car down to the road , saying `` Toot-toot '' ! To the stump of a tree as he passed it , the same stump which had impaled the car of many a guest in the past thirty years and which he refused to have removed .
ck25.36.1	post-adv	But he did not notice , and was already backing the car down to the road , as he passed it , saying `` Toot-toot '' ! To the stump of a tree the same stump which had impaled the car of many a guest in the past thirty years and which he refused to have removed .
ck25.38.0	ref	Then , when he had it pointed down the hill , he stopped to gaze at her through the window .
ck25.38.1	pre-adv	Then he stopped to gaze at her through the window , when he had it pointed down the hill .
ck25.39.0	ref	She had begun to turn back toward the house , but his look caught her and she stood still , waiting there for what his expression indicated would be a serious word of farewell .
ck25.39.1	post-adj2	She had begun to turn toward the house back , but his look caught her and she stood still , waiting there for what his expression indicated would be a serious word of farewell .
ck25.40.0	ref	He looked at her out of himself , she thought , as he did only for an instant at a time , the look which always surprised her even now when his uncombable hair was yellowing a little and his breath came hard through his nicotine-choked lungs , the look of the gaunt youth she had suddenly found herself staring at in the Tate Gallery on a Thursday once .
ck25.40.1	post-adv	As he did only for an instant at a time , he looked at her out of himself , she thought the look which always surprised her even now when his uncombable hair was yellowing a little and his breath came hard through his nicotine-choked lungs , the look of the gaunt youth she had suddenly found herself staring at in the Tate Gallery on a Thursday once .
ck25.40.2	post-adv	He looked at her out of himself , she thought , as he did only for an instant at a time , the look which when his uncombable hair was yellowing a little and his breath came hard through his nicotine-choked lungs always surprised her even now , the look of the gaunt youth she had suddenly found herself staring at in the Tate Gallery on a Thursday once .
ck25.40.3	post-adj2	He looked out of himself at her , she thought , as he did only for an instant at a time , the look which always surprised her even now when his uncombable hair was yellowing a little and his breath came hard through his nicotine-choked lungs , the look of the gaunt youth she had suddenly found herself staring at in the Tate Gallery on a Thursday once .
ck25.41.0	ref	Now she kept herself protectively ready to laugh again and sure enough he pointed at her with his index finger and said `` Toot '' ! Once more and roared off into the fog , his foot evidently surprising him with the suddenness with which it pressed the accelerator , just as his hand did when he worked .
ck25.41.1	post-adv	Now she kept herself protectively ready to laugh again and sure enough he pointed at her with his index finger and said `` Toot '' ! Once more and roared off into the fog , his foot evidently surprising him with the suddenness with which it pressed the accelerator , just as when he worked his hand did .
ck25.42.0	ref	She walked back to the house and entered , feeling herself returning , sensing some kind of opportunity in the empty building .
ck25.42.1	post-adj2	She walked to the house back and entered , feeling herself returning , sensing some kind of opportunity in the empty building .
ck25.43.0	ref	There is a death in all partings , she knew , and promptly put it out of her mind .
ck25.43.1	quote	There is a death in all partings , knew she , and promptly put it out of her mind .
ck25.47.0	ref	She fell asleep leaning on her hand , hearing the house creaking as though it were a living a private life of its own these two hundred years , hearing the birds rustling in their cages and the occasional whirring of wings as one of them landed on the table and walked across the newspaper to perch in the crook of her arm .
ck25.47.1	post-adv	She fell asleep leaning on her hand , hearing as though it were a living a private life of its own these two hundred years the house creaking , hearing the birds rustling in their cages and the occasional whirring of wings as one of them landed on the table and walked across the newspaper to perch in the crook of her arm .
ck25.49.0	ref	Then she fell asleep again as soddenly as a person with fever , and when she awoke it was dark outside and the clarity was back in her eyes .
ck25.49.1	pre-adv	Then she fell asleep again as soddenly as a person with fever , and it was dark outside , when she awoke , and the clarity was back in her eyes .
ck25.49.2	post-adj2	Then she fell asleep as soddenly as a person with fever again , and when she awoke it was dark outside and the clarity was back in her eyes .
ck27.1.0	ref	`` But tell me , doctor , where do you plan to conduct the hatching '' ? Alex asked .
ck27.1.1	dat-np-np	`` But tell doctor , to me , where do you plan to conduct the hatching '' ? Alex asked .
ck27.3.0	ref	`` What I want you to do is to go to the market with me early tomorrow morning and help smuggle the hen back into the hotel '' .
ck27.3.1	post-adj3	`` What I want you to do is to go with me to the market early tomorrow morning and help smuggle the hen back into the hotel '' .
ck27.3.2	post-adj3	`` What I want you to do is to go early tomorrow morning with me to the market and help smuggle the hen back into the hotel '' .
ck27.3.3	post-adj3	`` What I want you to do is to go to the market early tomorrow morning with me and help smuggle the hen back into the hotel '' .
ck27.3.4	post-adj3	`` What I want you to do is to go , early tomorrow morning , to the market with me and help smuggle the hen back into the hotel '' .
ck27.3.5	post-adj3	`` What I want you to do is to go with me early tomorrow morning , to the market , and help smuggle the hen back into the hotel '' .
ck27.10.0	ref	`` It 's been going since 1908 when I was a junior in college .
ck27.10.1	post-adv	`` It 's when I was a junior in college been going since 1908 .
ck27.12.0	ref	Could n't take them near a river , though , or they 'd squawk like a turkey cock the day before Thanksgiving '' .
ck27.12.1	post-adj2	Could n't take them though , near a river , or they 'd squawk like a turkey cock the day before Thanksgiving '' .
ck27.15.0	ref	Alex 's instruction was rapid , for the doctor had to go off to the Rue Ecole De Medecine to hear more speeches with only time for one sip of wine to sustain him through them all .
ck27.15.1	post-adj2	Alex 's instruction was rapid , for the doctor had to go with only time for one sip of wine to sustain him through them all to hear more speeches off to the Rue Ecole De Medecine .
ck27.16.0	ref	But after the doctor 's return that night Alex could see , from the high window in his own room , the now familiar figure crouched on a truly impressive heap of towels , apparently giving its egg-hatching powers one final chance before it was replaced in its office by a sure-enough hen .
ck27.16.1	dat-np-np	But after the doctor 's return that night Alex could see , from the high window in his own room , the now familiar figure crouched on a truly impressive heap of towels , apparently giving one final chance to its egg-hatching powers before it was replaced in its office by a sure-enough hen .
ck27.16.2	post-adv	But after the doctor 's return that night Alex could see , from the high window in his own room , the now familiar figure crouched on a truly impressive heap of towels , before it was replaced in its office by a sure-enough hen apparently giving its egg-hatching powers one final chance .
ck27.17.0	ref	A knocking at Alex 's door roused him at six o'clock the following morning .
ck27.17.1	post-adj2	A knocking at Alex 's door roused him the following morning at six o'clock .
ck27.20.0	ref	The market was not far and , once there , the doctor 's sense of immediacy left him and he fell into a state of harmony with the birds around him .
ck27.20.1	pre-adv	The market was not far and , the doctor 's sense of immediacy left him , once there , and he fell into a state of harmony with the birds around him .
ck27.22.0	ref	The dawn progressed and it seemed that the doctor would never be done with his ministrations when quite abruptly something broke his revery .
ck27.22.1	post-adv	The dawn progressed and when quite abruptly something broke his revery it seemed that the doctor would never be done with his ministrations .
ck27.26.0	ref	The purchase was effected and they made their way towards the hotel again , the hen , with whom some sort of communication had been set up , nestling in the doctor 's arms .
ck27.26.1	post-adj2	The purchase was effected and they made their way again towards the hotel , the hen , with whom some sort of communication had been set up , nestling in the doctor 's arms .
ck27.27.0	ref	The clocks struck seven-thirty as they approached the hotel entrance ; and hopes that the chambermaid and patronne would still be abed began to rise in Alex 's well exercised breast .
ck27.27.1	post-adv	As they approached the hotel entrance the clocks struck seven-thirty ; and hopes that the chambermaid and patronne would still be abed began to rise in Alex 's well exercised breast .
ck27.31.0	ref	It was then that they heard the tread of one descending and , in some perturbation glancing up , saw the patronne coming towards them as they gained the landing .
ck27.31.1	post-adv	It was then that they as they gained the landing heard the tread of one descending and , in some perturbation glancing up , saw the patronne coming towards them .
ck27.33.0	ref	Alex explained that they had been out for a stroll before breakfast while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex 's arm and back .
ck27.33.1	post-adv	While the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex 's arm and back Alex explained that they had been out for a stroll before breakfast .
ck27.33.2	post-adj3	Alex explained that they had been for a stroll out before breakfast while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex 's arm and back .
ck27.33.3	post-adj3	Alex explained that they had been before breakfast for a stroll out while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex 's arm and back .
ck27.33.4	post-adj3	Alex explained that they had been out before breakfast for a stroll while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex 's arm and back .
ck27.33.5	post-adj3	Alex explained that they had been before breakfast out for a stroll while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex 's arm and back .
ck27.33.6	post-adj3	Alex explained that they had been for a stroll before breakfast out while the doctor edged around behind him , attempting to hide the protuberance at his left side behind Alex 's arm and back .
ck27.34.0	ref	`` Vous voulez vos petits dejeuners tout de suite alors '' ? Their hostess enquired .
ck27.34.1	quote	`` Vous voulez vos petits dejeuners tout de suite alors '' ? enquired their hostess .
ck27.36.0	ref	The doctor , he noticed , was attempting a transverse movement towards the stairs , but before the movement could be completed a distinct and audible cluck ruffled the air in the hollow of the stair-well .
ck27.36.1	pre-adv	The doctor , he noticed , was attempting a transverse movement towards the stairs , but a distinct and audible cluck ruffled the air in the hollow of the stair-well before the movement could be completed .
ck27.38.0	ref	`` Comment '' ? Ejaculated the surprised woman , looking at Alex for an explanation but he , parting from her without ceremony , only offered a few words about the doctor 's provincial American speech and a state of nerves brought on by the demands of his work .
ck27.38.1	iquote	`` Comment '' ? the surprised woman ejaculated , looking at Alex for an explanation but he , parting from her without ceremony , only offered a few words about the doctor 's provincial American speech and a state of nerves brought on by the demands of his work .
ck27.38.2	post-adj2	`` Comment '' ? Ejaculated the surprised woman , looking for an explanation at Alex but he , parting from her without ceremony , only offered a few words about the doctor 's provincial American speech and a state of nerves brought on by the demands of his work .
ck27.40.0	ref	When Alex entered his room , the doctor was already preparing a nest in the straw case , six eggs ready for the hen 's attentions .
ck27.40.1	pre-adv	The doctor was already preparing a nest in the straw case , six eggs ready for the hen 's attentions , when Alex entered his room .
ck27.45.0	ref	Time elapsed but the doctor was obviously unconscious of its passage until an unwelcome knock on the door interrupted the processes of nature .
ck27.45.1	post-adj2	Time elapsed but the doctor was until an unwelcome knock on the door interrupted the processes of nature unconscious of its passage obviously .
ck27.47.0	ref	He opened it a crack and in doing so made as much shuffling , coughing , and scraping noise as possible in order to drown emanations from the hen who had begun to protest .
ck27.47.1	post-adv	He in order to drown emanations from the hen who had begun to protest opened it a crack and in doing so made as much shuffling , coughing , and scraping noise as possible .
ck27.48.0	ref	It was Giselle , the fille de chambre , come to clean the room , and while she stood before him with ears pricked up and regard all curiosity , explaining her errand , Alex could see from the corner of his eye the doctor doing all he could to calm the displeased bird .
ck27.48.1	pre-adv	It was Giselle , the fille de chambre , come to clean the room , and Alex could see from the corner of his eye the doctor doing all he could to calm the displeased bird , while she stood before him with ears pricked up and regard all curiosity , explaining her errand .
ck27.48.2	post-adj2	It was Giselle , the fille de chambre , come to clean the room , and while she stood with ears pricked up and regard all curiosity before him , explaining her errand , Alex could see from the corner of his eye the doctor doing all he could to calm the displeased bird .
ck27.53.0	ref	Anyhow she 's coming back in five minutes to do the room '' .
ck27.53.1	post-adj2	Anyhow she 's coming in five minutes back to do the room '' .
ck27.58.0	ref	Now you go outside and beckon me when it 's safe '' .
ck27.58.1	post-adv	Now you when it 's safe go outside and beckon me '' .
ck27.59.0	ref	The hall was empty and Alex beckoned ; they climbed the stairs which creaked , very loudly to their sensitive ears , and reached the next floor .
ck27.59.1	post-adj2	The hall was empty and Alex beckoned ; they climbed the stairs which creaked , to their sensitive ears very loudly , and reached the next floor .
ck27.67.0	ref	Although a look of alarm passed over his face , he did not arrest his movements but disappeared into the shower room just as the chambermaid emerged from number nine .
ck27.67.1	post-adv	Although a look of alarm passed over his face , he did not just as the chambermaid emerged from number nine arrest his movements but disappeared into the shower room .
ck27.67.2	pre-adv	He did not arrest his movements but disappeared into the shower room just as the chambermaid emerged from number nine , although a look of alarm passed over his face .
ck27.68.0	ref	Alex suppressed those expressions of relief which offered to prevail in his face and escape from his throat ; unwarranted they were in any case for , as he stood facing the fille de chambre , his ears were assailed by new sounds from the interior of the shower room .
ck27.68.1	pre-adv	Alex suppressed those expressions of relief which offered to prevail in his face and escape from his throat ; unwarranted they were in any case for , his ears were assailed by new sounds from the interior of the shower room , as he stood facing the fille de chambre .
ck27.69.0	ref	The events of the last quarter of an hour , mysterious to any bird accustomed only to the predictable life of coop and barnyard , had overcome the doctor 's hen and she gave out a series of cackly wails , perhaps mourning her nest , but briefly enjoyed .
ck27.69.1	post-adj2	The events of the last quarter of an hour , mysterious to any bird accustomed to the predictable life of coop and barnyard only , had overcome the doctor 's hen and she gave out a series of cackly wails , perhaps mourning her nest , but briefly enjoyed .
ck27.70.0	ref	The doctor 's wits had not left him , however , for all his sixty-eight years , and the wails were almost immediately lost in the sound of water rushing out from the showerhead .
ck27.70.1	post-adj2	The doctor 's wits had not left him , for all his sixty-eight years , however , and the wails were almost immediately lost in the sound of water rushing out from the showerhead .
ck27.71.0	ref	Alex nodded to the maid as though nothing unusual were taking place and entered the doctor 's room .
ck27.71.1	post-adv	Alex as though nothing unusual were taking place nodded to the maid and entered the doctor 's room .
ck27.75.0	ref	The two men sat for some time , savoring the pleasure of escape from peril and the relief such escape brings , before they got up and left the hotel , the doctor to go to the conference house and Alex to go to the main post office .
ck27.75.1	post-adv	Before they got up and left the hotel , the doctor to go to the conference house and Alex to go to the main post office , the two men sat for some time , savoring the pleasure of escape from peril and the relief such escape brings .
ck27.76.0	ref	Alex returned to the hotel , rather weary and with no new prospects of a role , in the late afternoon , but found the doctor in an ebullient mood .
ck27.76.1	post-adj2	Alex returned in the late afternoon , rather weary and with no new prospects of a role , to the hotel , but found the doctor in an ebullient mood .
ck27.80.0	ref	They 've got a big vulture from Tanganika at the zoo here , with a wife for him , too , very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa .
ck27.80.1	dat-np-np	They 've got very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa at the zoo here , with a wife for him , too , to a big vulture from Tanganika .
ck27.80.2	post-adj3	They 've got a big vulture from Tanganika with a wife for him , at the zoo here , too , very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa .
ck27.80.3	post-adj3	They 've got a big vulture from Tanganika too , with a wife for him , at the zoo here , very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa .
ck27.80.4	post-adj3	They 've got a big vulture from Tanganika at the zoo here , too , with a wife for him , very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa .
ck27.80.5	post-adj3	They 've got a big vulture from Tanganika , too , at the zoo here , with a wife for him very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa .
ck27.80.6	post-adj3	They 've got a big vulture from Tanganika with a wife for him , too , at the zoo here , very rare birds , both of them , the only Vulturidae of their species outside Africa .
ck27.81.0	ref	Seems like she 's willing , but the male just flops around all day like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then did n't know what to do , and the people at the zoo have n't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
ck27.81.1	post-adj3	Seems like she 's willing , but the male just flops all day around like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then did n't know what to do , and the people at the zoo have n't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
ck27.81.2	post-adj3	Seems like she 's willing , but the male just flops like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then did n't know what to do all day around , and the people at the zoo have n't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
ck27.81.3	post-adj3	Seems like she 's willing , but the male just flops around like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then did n't know what to do all day , and the people at the zoo have n't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
ck27.81.4	post-adj3	Seems like she 's willing , but the male just flops like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then did n't know what to do around all day , and the people at the zoo have n't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
ck27.81.5	post-adj3	Seems like she 's willing , but the male just flops all day like the bashful boy who took Jeannie May behind the barn and then did n't know what to do around , and the people at the zoo have n't got any vulture chicks to show for their trouble .
ck28.1.0	ref	Going downstairs with the tray , Winston wished he could have given in to Miss Ada , but he knew better than to do what she said when she had that little-girl look .
ck28.1.1	post-adv	Going downstairs with the tray , Winston wished he could have given in to Miss Ada , but when she had that little-girl look he knew better than to do what she said .
ck28.1.2	post-adj2	Going with the tray downstairs , Winston wished he could have given in to Miss Ada , but he knew better than to do what she said when she had that little-girl look .
ck28.12.0	ref	She looked at him impudently over the corner of the paper .
ck28.12.1	post-adj3	She looked impudently at him over the corner of the paper .
ck28.12.2	post-adj3	She looked over the corner of the paper impudently at him .
ck28.12.3	post-adj3	She looked at him over the corner of the paper impudently .
ck28.12.4	post-adj3	She looked over the corner of the paper at him impudently .
ck28.12.5	post-adj3	She looked impudently over the corner of the paper at him .
ck28.13.0	ref	`` This is moving day '' , Winston reminded her , `` and I bet you left things every which way upstairs , your clothes all over the floor and the bed not made .
ck28.13.1	dat-np-np	`` This is moving day '' , Winston reminded her , `` and I bet you left every which way to things upstairs , your clothes all over the floor and the bed not made .
ck28.16.0	ref	`` If I catch you one more time down here without stockings '' -- She twitched her leg away .
ck28.16.1	post-adj3	`` If I catch you down here one more time without stockings '' -- She twitched her leg away .
ck28.16.2	post-adj3	`` If I catch you without stockings down here one more time '' -- She twitched her leg away .
ck28.16.3	post-adj3	`` If I catch you one more time without stockings down here '' -- She twitched her leg away .
ck28.16.4	post-adj3	`` If I catch you , without stockings , one more time down here '' -- She twitched her leg away .
ck28.16.5	post-adj3	`` If I catch you down here without stockings , one more time '' -- She twitched her leg away .
ck28.35.0	ref	`` At least there is room here '' , she said .
ck28.35.1	quote	`` At least there is room here '' , said she .
ck28.36.0	ref	`` What room is there going to be in an apartment for any child '' ?
ck28.36.1	post-adj2	`` What room is there going to be for any child in an apartment '' ?
ck28.41.0	ref	She sounded as though they already existed .
ck28.41.1	post-adv	As though they already existed she sounded .
ck28.48.0	ref	`` How many times have I told you '' -- he began , and was almost glad when she cut him off -- `` Too many times '' ! and flounced to the sink , where she began noisily to wash her hands .
ck28.48.1	post-adv	`` How many times have I told you '' -- he when she cut him off -- `` Too many times '' ! and flounced to the sink , where she began noisily to wash her hands began , and was almost glad .
ck28.49.0	ref	Too many times was the truth of it , Winston thought .
ck28.49.1	quote	Too many times was the truth of it , thought Winston .
ck28.51.0	ref	Although it had seemed a good reason , to begin with : no couple could afford to have children .
ck28.51.1	pre-adv	No couple could afford to have children although it had seemed a good reason , to begin with .
ck28.55.0	ref	He sat for a while with his hands on his knees , watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack .
ck28.55.1	post-adv	He sat for a while with his hands on his knees , as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack watching the bend of her back .
ck28.55.2	post-adv	He sat for a while with his hands on his knees , watching the bend of her back as to take upstairs and pack she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin .
ck28.55.3	post-adj3	He sat with his hands for a while on his knees , watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack .
ck28.55.4	post-adj3	He sat on his knees with his hands for a while , watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack .
ck28.55.5	post-adj3	He sat for a while on his knees with his hands , watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack .
ck28.55.6	post-adj3	He sat , on his knees , for a while with his hands watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack .
ck28.55.7	post-adj3	He sat with his hands on his knees for a while , watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack .
ck28.61.0	ref	`` I 've been bursting my lungs for you '' , Mr. Jack complained .
ck28.61.1	quote	`` I 've been bursting my lungs for you '' , complained Mr. Jack .
ck28.64.0	ref	`` I do n't know what you think you 've been doing about my clothes '' , he said .
ck28.64.1	quote	`` I do n't know what you think you 've been doing about my clothes '' , said he .
ck28.68.0	ref	He gave Mr. Jack a real going-over ; he brushed his shoulders and his back and his collar with long , firm strokes .
ck28.68.1	dat-np-np	He gave a real going-over to Mr. Jack ; he brushed his shoulders and his back and his collar with long , firm strokes .
ck28.69.0	ref	`` Hey '' ! Mr. Jack cried when the brush tipped his hat down over his eyes .
ck28.69.1	post-adv	When the brush tipped his hat down over his eyes `` hey '' ! Mr. Jack cried .
ck28.73.0	ref	When he was going to town , nothing was good enough -- he had cursed at Winston once for leaving a fleck of polish on his shoelace .
ck28.73.1	pre-adv	Nothing was good enough , when he was going to town -- he had cursed at Winston once for leaving a fleck of polish on his shoelace .
ck28.78.0	ref	Winston watched him hurry down the drive to his car ; a handsome , fine-looking man it made him proud to see .
ck28.78.1	post-adj2	Winston watched him hurry to his car down the drive ; a handsome , fine-looking man it made him proud to see .
ck28.79.0	ref	After Mr. Jack drove away , Winston went on looking out the window .
ck28.79.1	pre-adv	Winston went on looking out the window , after Mr. Jack drove away .
ck28.85.0	ref	He knew the house like a blind man , through his fingers , and he did not like to think of all the time and rags and polishes he had spent on keeping it up .
ck28.85.1	post-adj2	He knew the house through his fingers , like a blind man , and he did not like to think of all the time and rags and polishes he had spent on keeping it up .
ck28.88.0	ref	Miss Ada had been out back , in a straw hat , planting flowers .
ck28.88.1	post-adj2	Miss Ada had been in a straw hat , out back , planting flowers .
ck28.89.0	ref	She had talked to him right there , with the hot sun in his face , which made him sweat and feel ashamed .
ck28.89.1	post-adj3	She had talked right there to him , with the hot sun in his face , which made him sweat and feel ashamed .
ck28.89.2	post-adj3	She had talked with the hot sun in his face , right there , to him which made him sweat and feel ashamed .
ck28.89.3	post-adj3	She had talked to him with the hot sun in his face , right there which made him sweat and feel ashamed .
ck28.89.4	post-adj3	She had talked , with the hot sun in his face , to him right there which made him sweat and feel ashamed .
ck28.89.5	post-adj3	She had talked right there , with the hot sun in his face , to him which made him sweat and feel ashamed .
ck28.94.0	ref	Already the jonquils were blooming in a flock by the front gate , and the periwinkles were coming on , blue by the porch steps .
ck28.94.1	post-adj2	Already the jonquils were blooming by the front gate in a flock , and the periwinkles were coming on , blue by the porch steps .
ck28.103.0	ref	In the living room , Miss Ada was standing by the window with a sheaf of lists in her hand .
ck28.103.1	post-adj2	In the living room , Miss Ada was standing with a sheaf of lists in her hand by the window .
ck28.110.0	ref	It hung in all her day clothes , sweet and strong ; sometimes when he was pressing , Winston raised her dresses to his face .
ck28.110.1	pre-adv	It hung in all her day clothes , sweet and strong ; sometimes Winston raised her dresses to his face , when he was pressing .
ck28.117.0	ref	When they came to Mr. Jack 's photograph , twenty by twelve inches in a curly silver frame , Miss Ada said , `` By rights I ought to leave that , seeing he wo n't take my clotheshorse '' .
ck28.117.1	pre-adv	Miss Ada said , `` By rights I ought to leave that , seeing he wo n't take my clotheshorse '' , when they came to Mr. Jack 's photograph , twenty by twelve inches in a curly silver frame .
ck28.120.0	ref	`` At least you could leave it for the movers '' , Miss Ada said .
ck28.120.1	quote	`` At least you could leave it for the movers '' , said Miss Ada .
ck28.124.0	ref	`` Well , that 's over now .
ck28.124.1	post-adj2	`` Well , that 's now over .
ck28.134.0	ref	`` You know what she likes , Winston '' , he had said wearily , one evening in November when Winston was pulling off his overshoes .
ck28.134.1	post-adv	`` You know what she likes , Winston '' , he when Winston was pulling off his overshoes had said wearily , one evening in November .
ck28.134.2	quote	`` You know what she likes , Winston '' , had said he wearily , one evening in November when Winston was pulling off his overshoes .
ck28.134.3	post-adj2	`` You know what she likes , Winston '' , he had said one evening in November , wearily when Winston was pulling off his overshoes .
ck28.136.0	ref	`` She 's been talking about a picture '' , Winston had told him .
ck28.136.1	quote	`` She 's been talking about a picture '' , had told Winston him .
ck28.141.0	ref	Winston had heard because he was setting up the liquor tray in the next room .
ck28.141.1	post-adv	Winston because he was setting up the liquor tray in the next room had heard .
ck28.148.0	ref	He had stood at a little distance , studying her , as though he would walk around next and look at the back of her head .
ck28.148.1	post-adv	He , as though he would walk around next and look at the back of her head , had stood at a little distance , studying her .
ck28.151.0	ref	`` You look like that picture I have at the office '' , Mr. Jack had started .
ck28.151.1	quote	`` You look like that picture I have at the office '' , had started Mr. Jack .
ck28.155.0	ref	Will you wear pink when you 're sixty '' ?
ck28.155.1	post-adv	When you 're sixty will you wear pink '' ?
ck28.161.0	ref	`` I 'll give you a medical certificate , framed , if you like '' , Miss Ada had said .
ck28.161.1	dat-np-np	`` I 'll give a medical certificate , framed to you , if you like '' , Miss Ada had said .
ck28.161.2	post-adv	`` I , if you like , 'll give you a medical certificate , framed '' , Miss Ada had said .
ck28.161.3	quote	`` I 'll give you a medical certificate , framed , if you like '' , had said Miss Ada .
ck28.164.0	ref	Make the man put them in if he has to '' .
ck28.164.1	post-adv	Make if he has to the man put them in '' .
ck28.165.0	ref	After that they had sat for five minutes without saying a word .
ck28.165.1	post-adj2	After that they had sat without saying a word for five minutes .
ck29.4.0	ref	Nothing in all the preceding years had had the power to bring me closer to a knowledge of profound sorrow than the breakup of camp , the packing away of my camp uniforms , the severing of ties with the six or ten people I had grown most to love in the world .
ck29.4.1	post-adj2	Nothing in all the preceding years had had the power to bring me than the breakup of camp , the packing away of my camp uniforms , the severing of ties with the six or ten people I had grown most to love in the world closer to a knowledge of profound sorrow .
ck29.5.0	ref	In final separation from them , in the railroad terminal across the river from New York , I would nearly cry .
ck29.5.1	pre-adj2	In the railroad terminal across the river from New York , in final separation from them , I would nearly cry .
ck29.7.0	ref	But that year was different , for just as the city , in the form of my street clothes , had intruded upon my mountain nights , so an essential part of the summer gave promise of continuing into the fall : Jessica and I , about to be separated not by a mere footbridge or messhall kitchen but by the immense obstacle of residing in cruelly distant boroughs , had agreed to correspond .
ck29.7.1	pre-adv	But that year was different , for so an essential part of the summer gave promise of continuing into the fall , just as the city , in the form of my street clothes , had intruded upon my mountain nights : Jessica and I , about to be separated not by a mere footbridge or messhall kitchen but by the immense obstacle of residing in cruelly distant boroughs , had agreed to correspond .
ck29.15.0	ref	The night after reading her letter about her surgeon uncle -- it must have been late in September -- I had a vision of myself returned in ragged uniform from The Front , nearly dying , my head bandaged and blooded , and Jessica bending over me , the power of her love bringing me back to life .
ck29.15.1	post-adj2	The night after reading her letter about her surgeon uncle -- it must have been late in September -- I had a vision of myself returned from The Front in ragged uniform , nearly dying , my head bandaged and blooded , and Jessica bending over me , the power of her love bringing me back to life .
ck29.16.0	ref	For many nights afterward , the idea of her having been so close to me in that imagined bed would return and fill me with obscure and painful desires , would cause me to lie awake in shame , tossing with irresolution , longing to fall into a deep sleep .
ck29.16.1	post-adj2	For many nights afterward , the idea of her having been in that imagined bed so close to me would return and fill me with obscure and painful desires , would cause me to lie awake in shame , tossing with irresolution , longing to fall into a deep sleep .
ck29.18.0	ref	They caused my love for Jessica to become warmer and at the same time more hopeless , as if my adolescent self knew that only torment would ever bring me the courage to ask to see her again .
ck29.18.1	dat-np-np	They caused my love for Jessica to become warmer and at the same time more hopeless , as if my adolescent self knew that only torment would ever bring the courage to ask to see her again to me .
ck29.19.0	ref	As it turned out , Jessica took matters into her own hands .
ck29.19.1	pre-adv	Jessica took matters into her own hands , as it turned out .
ck29.22.0	ref	Again among those jubilantly reunited bunkmates , I was shy with Jessie and acted as I had during those early Saturday mornings when we all seemed to be playing for effect , to be detached and unconcerned with the girls who were properly our dates but about whom , later , in the privacy of our bunks , we would think in terms of the most elaborate romance .
ck29.22.1	post-adv	Again among those jubilantly reunited bunkmates , I as I had during those early Saturday mornings when we all seemed to be playing for effect , to be detached and unconcerned with the girls who were properly our dates but about whom , later , in the privacy of our bunks , we would think in terms of the most elaborate romance was shy with Jessie and acted .
ck29.26.0	ref	Yet a moment did come that night when the adventurous letter writer and fantasist seemed to stride off my flashy pages , out of my mind , and plant himself in reality .
ck29.26.1	post-adv	Yet a moment when the adventurous letter writer and fantasist seemed to stride off my flashy pages , out of my mind , and plant himself in reality did come that night .
ck29.35.0	ref	Among my school and neighborhood friends , during the next months , I bragged and swaggered and pompously described my impending date .
ck29.35.1	pre-adj2	During the next months , among my school and neighborhood friends , I bragged and swaggered and pompously described my impending date .
ck29.36.0	ref	But though I boasted and gave off a dapper front , I was beneath it all frightened .
ck29.36.1	pre-adv	But I was beneath it all frightened , though I boasted and gave off a dapper front .
ck29.38.0	ref	I had no idea of what subjects one discussed when alone with a girl , or how one behaved : Should I hold her hand while walking or only when crossing the street ?
ck29.38.1	post-adv	I had no idea of what subjects when alone with a girl one discussed , or how one behaved : Should I hold her hand while walking or only when crossing the street ?
ck29.38.2	post-adv	I had no idea of what subjects one discussed when alone with a girl , or how one behaved : while walking or only when crossing the street Should I hold her hand ?
ck29.44.0	ref	When in one letter Jessica informed me that her father did not like the idea of her going out alone on New Year 's Eve , I knew for a moment an immense relief ; but the letter went on : she had cried , she had implored , she had been miserable at his refusal , and finally he had relented -- and now how happy she was , how expectant !
ck29.44.1	pre-adv	I knew for a moment an immense relief , when in one letter Jessica informed me that her father did not like the idea of her going out alone on New Year 's Eve ; but the letter went on : she had cried , she had implored , she had been miserable at his refusal , and finally he had relented -- and now how happy she was , how expectant !
ck29.45.0	ref	Her optimism gave me heart .
ck29.45.1	dat-np-np	Her optimism gave heart to me .
ck29.49.0	ref	We would attend a film and , later on , I stated , we might go to the Mayflower Coffee Shop or Child 's or Toffenetti 's for waffles .
ck29.49.1	post-adj2	We would attend a film and , later on , I stated , we might go for waffles to the Mayflower Coffee Shop or Child 's or Toffenetti 's .
ck29.55.0	ref	I felt superior to the neighborhood friends I was leaving behind , felt older than my years , and was full of compliments for myself as I headed into the subway that was carrying its packs of passengers out of that dull borough and into the unstable , tantalizing excitement of Manhattan .
ck29.55.1	post-adv	As I headed into the subway that was carrying its packs of passengers out of that dull borough and into the unstable , tantalizing excitement of Manhattan I felt superior to the neighborhood friends I was leaving behind , felt older than my years , and was full of compliments for myself .
ck29.56.0	ref	Times Square , when I ascended to it with my fellow subway travellers -LRB- all dressed as if for a huge wedding in a family of which we were all distant members -RRB- , was nearly impassable , the sidewalks swarming with celebrants , with bundled up sailors and soldiers already hugging their girls and their rationed bottles of whiskey .
ck29.56.1	post-adv	Times Square , when I ascended to it with my fellow subway travellers -LRB- as if for a huge wedding in a family of which we were all distant members all dressed -RRB- , was nearly impassable , the sidewalks swarming with celebrants , with bundled up sailors and soldiers already hugging their girls and their rationed bottles of whiskey .
ck29.56.2	pre-adv	Times Square was nearly impassable , the sidewalks swarming with celebrants , with bundled up sailors and soldiers already hugging their girls and their rationed bottles of whiskey , when I ascended to it with my fellow subway travellers -LRB- all dressed as if for a huge wedding in a family of which we were all distant members -RRB- .
ck29.56.3	post-adj2	Times Square , when I ascended with my fellow subway travellers -LRB- all dressed as if for a huge wedding in a family of which we were all distant members -RRB- to it , was nearly impassable , the sidewalks swarming with celebrants , with bundled up sailors and soldiers already hugging their girls and their rationed bottles of whiskey .
ck29.57.0	ref	Heavy-coated , severe-looking policemen sat astride noble horses along the curbside to prevent the revellers from spilling out in front of the crawling traffic .
ck29.57.1	post-adj2	Heavy-coated , severe-looking policemen sat along the curbside astride noble horses to prevent the revellers from spilling out in front of the crawling traffic .
ck29.67.0	ref	It was a quarter of seven when the crowd washed me up among the other gallants who had established the Astor steps as the beach-head from which to launch their night of merrymaking .
ck29.67.1	post-adv	When the crowd washed me up among the other gallants who had established the Astor steps as the beach-head from which to launch their night of merrymaking it was a quarter of seven .
ck29.70.0	ref	I looked for Jessica to materialize out of the clogging , curdling crowd and , as the time passed and I waited , a fiend came to life beside me and whispered in my ear : How was I planning to greet Jessica ?
ck29.70.1	pre-adv	I looked for Jessica to materialize out of the clogging , curdling crowd and , a fiend came to life beside me and whispered in my ear : How was I planning to greet Jessica , as the time passed and I waited ?
ck29.76.0	ref	But when I saw that it was already ten past seven , I began to wonder if something had gone wrong .
ck29.76.1	pre-adv	But I began to wonder if something had gone wrong , when I saw that it was already ten past seven .
ck29.81.0	ref	Whole platoons were taking up new positions on the steps , arriving and departing , while I stayed glued , like a signpost , to one spot .
ck29.81.1	post-adv	Whole platoons , while I stayed glued , like a signpost , to one spot , were taking up new positions on the steps , arriving and departing .
cl01.1.0	ref	There were thirty-eight patients on the bus the morning I left for Hanover , most of them disturbed and hallucinating .
cl01.1.1	post-adj2	There were thirty-eight patients the morning I left for Hanover on the bus , most of them disturbed and hallucinating .
cl01.3.0	ref	I felt lonely and depressed as I stared out the bus window at Chicago 's grim , dirty West Side .
cl01.3.1	post-adv	As I stared out the bus window at Chicago 's grim , dirty West Side I felt lonely and depressed .
cl01.3.2	post-adj2	I felt lonely and depressed as I stared at Chicago 's grim , dirty West Side out the bus window .
cl01.4.0	ref	It seemed incredible , as I listened to the monotonous drone of voices and smelled the fetid odors coming from the patients , that technically I was a ward of the state of Illinois , going to a hospital for the mentally ill .
cl01.4.1	post-adv	As I listened to the monotonous drone of voices and smelled the fetid odors coming from the patients , it seemed incredible that technically I was a ward of the state of Illinois , going to a hospital for the mentally ill .
cl01.7.0	ref	I had told her enough about myself to offset somewhat the damaging stories that had appeared in local newspapers after my little adventure in Marshall Field & Co. .
cl01.7.1	dat-np-np	I had told enough about myself to offset somewhat the damaging stories that had appeared in local newspapers after my little adventure in Marshall Field & Co. to her .
cl01.10.0	ref	She was n't quite sure that I felt enough remorse about my drinking , or that I would not return to it once I was out and on my own again .
cl01.10.1	post-adv	She was n't quite sure that I felt enough remorse about my drinking , or that I once I was out and on my own again would not return to it .
cl01.12.0	ref	`` I read those newspaper stories about you '' , she had said .
cl01.12.1	quote	`` I read those newspaper stories about you '' , had said she .
cl01.13.0	ref	`` You must have loved that girl very much , but you could n't have meant it when you said that you wanted to kill her '' .
cl01.13.1	post-adv	`` You must have loved that girl very much , but you could n't when you said that you wanted to kill her have meant it '' .
cl01.21.0	ref	`` Would it make any difference to you if I were , Mary Jane '' ?
cl01.21.1	dat-np-np	`` Would it make Mary Jane if I were , to any difference to you '' ?
cl01.21.2	post-adv	If I were , `` would it make any difference to you Mary Jane '' ?
cl01.23.0	ref	`` I would n't have gone into nursing if I did n't care about people .
cl01.23.1	post-adv	`` I would n't if I did n't care about people have gone into nursing .
cl01.31.0	ref	You do n't believe that I 'm going back to medical school and finish , do you '' ?
cl01.31.1	post-adj2	You do n't believe that I 'm going to medical school back and finish , do you '' ?
cl01.34.0	ref	We keep getting the same ones back again and again .
cl01.34.1	post-adj2	We keep getting the same ones again and again back .
cl01.35.0	ref	They all mean well , have great promises to make when they are about to go home , but drinking is their sickness .
cl01.35.1	post-adv	They all when they are about to go home mean well , have great promises to make , but drinking is their sickness .
cl01.39.0	ref	I wanted to go to college , too ''
cl01.39.1	post-adj2	I wanted to go too , to college ''
cl01.43.0	ref	`` That 's what I mean about you , Anderson '' , she said .
cl01.43.1	quote	`` That 's what I mean about you , Anderson '' , said she .
cl01.47.0	ref	There was no money for tuition , for clothes , for all the things you apparently take for granted .
cl01.47.1	post-adv	There was no money for tuition , for clothes , for all the things for granted you apparently take .
cl01.49.0	ref	They even pay me six dollars a month .
cl01.49.1	dat-np-np	They even pay six dollars a month to me .
cl01.51.0	ref	I 'm going to become a good nurse , and I 've got two baby brothers that are going to have college if I have to work at my profession until I 'm an old maid to give it to them '' .
cl01.51.1	post-adv	I 'm going to become a good nurse , and I 've got two baby brothers that are going if I have to work at my profession until I 'm an old maid to give it to them to have college '' .
cl01.51.2	post-adv	I 'm going to become a good nurse , and I 've got two baby brothers that are going to have college if I have until I 'm an old maid to work at my profession to give it to them '' .
cl01.51.3	dat-np-pp	I 'm going to become a good nurse , and I 've got two baby brothers that are going to have college if I have to work at my profession until I 'm an old maid to give them it '' .
cl01.53.0	ref	`` That 's none of your business '' , she said , then changed the subject .
cl01.53.1	quote	`` That 's none of your business '' , said she , then changed the subject .
cl01.54.0	ref	`` What about your father and mother , do n't you think of them when you 're in a place like this '' ?
cl01.54.1	post-adv	`` What about your father and mother , when you 're in a place like this do n't you think of them '' ?
cl01.55.0	ref	`` My father and mother died when I was two years old '' , I said .
cl01.55.1	post-adv	`` When I was two years old my father and mother died '' , I said .
cl01.55.2	quote	`` My father and mother died when I was two years old '' , said I .
cl01.57.0	ref	Aunt Mary died when I was doing my military service .
cl01.57.1	post-adv	When I was doing my military service Aunt Mary died .
cl01.59.0	ref	Something in my voice must have touched her deeply because her anger passed quickly , and she turned away to keep me from seeing her face .
cl01.59.1	post-adv	Something in my voice must because her anger passed quickly , and she turned away to keep me from seeing her face have touched her deeply .
cl01.60.0	ref	`` I 'm sorry '' , she said .
cl01.60.1	quote	`` I 'm sorry '' , said she .
cl01.63.0	ref	`` Tell me more about them '' .
cl01.63.1	dat-np-np	`` Tell more about them to me '' .
cl01.64.0	ref	Her eyes became bright as she talked about her father and mother , aunts and uncles , cousins .
cl01.64.1	post-adv	As she talked about her father and mother , aunts and uncles , cousins her eyes became bright .
cl01.65.0	ref	Listening , I felt cheated and lonely as only an orphan can .
cl01.65.1	post-adv	As only an orphan can listening , I felt cheated and lonely .
cl01.66.0	ref	When she had finished I said : `` Your dad sounds like a good father and a good policeman .
cl01.66.1	pre-adv	I said : `` Your dad sounds like a good father and a good policeman when she had finished .
cl01.67.0	ref	I 'll bet he would n't be pleased if a rumdum like me were to ask his daughter for a date -- I mean , after I 'm out of the hospital , a month or so from now '' .
cl01.67.1	post-adv	I 'll bet he would n't if a rumdum like me were to ask his daughter for a date be pleased -- I mean , after I 'm out of the hospital , a month or so from now '' .
cl01.67.2	post-adv	I 'll bet he would n't be pleased if a rumdum like me were to ask his daughter for a date -- after I 'm out of the hospital , I mean a month or so from now '' .
cl01.68.0	ref	`` My father is a sergeant of detectives and has been attached to Homicide for five years .
cl01.68.1	post-adj2	`` My father is a sergeant of detectives and has been attached for five years to Homicide .
cl01.70.0	ref	I do n't think he 'd mind too much if he were sure you 'd decided not to be a rumdum in the future '' .
cl01.70.1	post-adv	I if he were sure you 'd decided not to be a rumdum in the future do n't think he 'd mind too much '' .
cl01.72.0	ref	How would you feel about it if I were to ask you for a date when I get through at Hanover '' ?
cl01.72.1	post-adv	How if I were to ask you for a date when I get through at Hanover would you feel about it '' ?
cl01.72.2	post-adv	How would you feel about it if I were when I get through at Hanover to ask you for a date '' ?
cl01.73.0	ref	`` If I thought you were serious about going back to school , that you 'd learned something from your experiences here and at Hanover -- well , I might consider such an offer .
cl01.73.1	pre-adv	Well , I might consider such an offer `` if I thought you were serious about going back to school , that you 'd learned something from your experiences here and at Hanover .
cl01.73.2	post-adj2	`` If I thought you were serious about going to school back , that you 'd learned something from your experiences here and at Hanover -- well , I might consider such an offer .
cl01.76.0	ref	`` There are things about me that I can n't tell you now , Mary Jane '' , I said , `` but if you 'll go out to dinner with me when I get out of Hanover , I 'd like to tell you the whole story .
cl01.76.1	dat-np-np	`` There are things about me that I can n't tell you now , Mary Jane '' , I said , `` but if you 'll go out to dinner with me when I get out of Hanover , I 'd like to tell the whole story to you .
cl01.76.2	post-adv	`` There are things about me that I can n't tell you now , Mary Jane '' , I said , `` but if you when I get out of Hanover 'll go out to dinner with me , I 'd like to tell you the whole story .
cl01.76.3	pre-adv	`` There are things about me that I can n't tell you now , Mary Jane '' , I said , `` but I 'd like to tell you the whole story , if you 'll go out to dinner with me when I get out of Hanover .
cl01.77.0	ref	I can say this : I 'm dead serious about going back to school .
cl01.77.1	post-adj2	I can say this : I 'm dead serious about going to school back .
cl01.79.0	ref	You will get to come home on long weekends from Hanover , wo n't you '' ?
cl01.79.1	post-adj3	You will get to come on long weekends home from Hanover , wo n't you '' ?
cl01.79.2	post-adj3	You will get to come from Hanover on long weekends home , wo n't you '' ?
cl01.79.3	post-adj3	You will get to come home from Hanover on long weekends , wo n't you '' ?
cl01.79.4	post-adj3	You will get to come from Hanover home on long weekends , wo n't you '' ?
cl01.79.5	post-adj3	You will get to come on long weekends from Hanover home , wo n't you '' ?
cl01.81.0	ref	`` We 'll go up to the Edgewater Beach Hotel for dinner '' , I said .
cl01.81.1	quote	`` We 'll go up to the Edgewater Beach Hotel for dinner '' , said I .
cl01.81.2	post-adj2	`` We 'll go for dinner up to the Edgewater Beach Hotel '' , I said .
cl01.84.0	ref	`` I like to dance '' , she said , then turned and walked away .
cl01.84.1	quote	`` I like to dance '' , said she , then turned and walked away .
cl01.93.0	ref	But I had the proof , all documented in a legal agreement which I would show her the moment I was free to do so .
cl01.93.1	dat-np-np	But I had the proof , all documented in a legal agreement which I would show the moment I was free to do so to her .
cl01.94.0	ref	As the bus turned into the main highway and headed toward Hanover I settled back in my seat and closed my eyes , thinking over the events of the past two weeks , trying to put the pieces in order .
cl01.94.1	pre-adv	I settled back in my seat and closed my eyes , thinking over the events of the past two weeks , trying to put the pieces in order as the bus turned into the main highway and headed toward Hanover .
cl01.95.0	ref	I wondered suddenly as I listened to the disconnected jabberings coming from the patient behind me , if I had not perhaps imagined it all .
cl01.95.1	post-adv	As I listened to the disconnected jabberings coming from the patient behind me , I wondered suddenly if I had not perhaps imagined it all .
cl01.100.0	ref	No one , not even the producer , had any real hope of getting it back to Broadway .
cl01.100.1	post-adj2	No one , not even the producer , had any real hope of getting it to Broadway back .
cl01.101.0	ref	But because it was a suspense gangster story of the Capone era , many of us felt that it might catch on for a run in Chicago , continue as a road company , and eventually become a movie .
cl01.101.1	pre-adv	But many of us felt that it might catch on for a run in Chicago , continue as a road company , and eventually become a movie , because it was a suspense gangster story of the Capone era .
cl01.109.0	ref	I felt lonely and depressed as I packed my bags at the Croydon Hotel .
cl01.109.1	post-adv	As I packed my bags at the Croydon Hotel I felt lonely and depressed .
cl01.112.0	ref	Then later I had quit my safe , secure five-a-week spot on a network soap opera to take a part in this play .
cl01.112.1	pre-adj2	Later then I had quit my safe , secure five-a-week spot on a network soap opera to take a part in this play .
cl01.114.0	ref	I knew that I 'd soon be back working as an orderly at the hospital or as a counterman at Union News or Schraffts while waiting for another acting job to open .
cl01.114.1	post-adv	I knew that I 'd soon be while waiting for another acting job to open back working as an orderly at the hospital or as a counterman at Union News or Schraffts .
cl01.116.0	ref	I closed the last bag and stood all three at the door for the bellboy to pick up , then went to the bathroom for a drink of water .
cl01.116.1	post-adj2	I closed the last bag and stood all three for the bellboy to pick up at the door , then went to the bathroom for a drink of water .
cl01.118.0	ref	When I answered it a voice too dignified and British to be real said , `` Is this Mr. Dale Nelson , the actor '' ?
cl01.118.1	pre-adv	A voice too dignified and British to be real said , `` Is this Mr. Dale Nelson , the actor '' when I answered it ?
cl01.126.0	ref	Could you possibly have lunch with him today ?
cl01.126.1	post-adj2	Could you possibly have lunch today with him ?
cl01.127.0	ref	His car could pick you up at your hotel at twelve '' .
cl01.127.1	post-adj2	His car could pick you up at twelve at your hotel '' .
cl01.132.0	ref	I finally went downstairs to the bar off the main lobby where most of the cast were drowning their sorrows over the untimely passing of Ask Tony .
cl01.132.1	post-adj2	I finally went to the bar off the main lobby where most of the cast were drowning their sorrows over the untimely passing of Ask Tony downstairs .
cl01.133.0	ref	They all bowed low as I approached them .
cl01.133.1	post-adv	As I approached them they all bowed low .
cl01.136.0	ref	He had just returned my change when the doorman came in off the street to page me .
cl01.136.1	post-adv	He when the doorman came in off the street to page me had just returned my change .
cl01.140.0	ref	`` Mr. Wycoff 's car is waiting for you at the east entrance '' .
cl01.140.1	post-adj2	`` Mr. Wycoff 's car is waiting at the east entrance for you '' .
cl01.141.0	ref	I followed him out through the lobby to the street .
cl01.141.1	post-adj3	I followed him through the lobby out to the street .
cl01.141.2	post-adj3	I followed him to the street through the lobby out .
cl01.141.3	post-adj3	I followed him out to the street through the lobby .
cl01.141.4	post-adj3	I followed him , to the street , out through the lobby .
cl01.141.5	post-adj3	I followed him through the lobby to the street out .
cl01.143.0	ref	The elderly chauffeur , immaculate in a dark uniform , stood stiffly at attention holding open the door of the town car .
cl01.143.1	post-adj2	The elderly chauffeur , immaculate in a dark uniform , stood at attention stiffly holding open the door of the town car .
cl02.1.0	ref	I was giving the parked cars the once-over .
cl02.1.1	dat-np-np	I was giving the once-over to the parked cars .
cl02.4.0	ref	I walked with him back to the entrance .
cl02.4.1	post-adj3	I walked back with him to the entrance .
cl02.4.2	post-adj3	I walked to the entrance back with him .
cl02.4.3	post-adj3	I walked with him to the entrance back .
cl02.4.4	post-adj3	I walked to the entrance with him back .
cl02.4.5	post-adj3	I walked back to the entrance with him .
cl02.5.0	ref	He gave me a ticket on the agency car and parked it .
cl02.5.1	dat-np-np	He gave a ticket on the agency car to me and parked it .
cl02.6.0	ref	I was back in ten minutes .
cl02.6.1	post-adj2	I was in ten minutes back .
cl02.7.0	ref	`` Forgot to get something out of the car '' , I told him , showing him my ticket .
cl02.7.1	dat-np-np	`` Forgot to get something out of the car '' , I told him , showing my ticket to him .
cl02.7.2	quote	`` Forgot to get something out of the car '' , told him , showing I him my ticket .
cl02.8.0	ref	He started to say something as I walked in and then suddenly grinned and said , `` Oh , yes .
cl02.8.1	post-adv	He as I walked in started to say something and then suddenly grinned and said , `` Oh , yes .
cl02.9.0	ref	You 're the one I was talking to about a monthly rental .
cl02.9.1	post-adj2	You 're the one I was talking about a monthly rental to .
cl02.10.0	ref	`` That 's right '' , I told him .
cl02.10.1	quote	`` That 's right '' , told I him .
cl02.14.0	ref	I went back to the agency car and got out an electric bug , one of the newest devices for electronic shadowing .
cl02.14.1	post-adj2	I went to the agency car back and got out an electric bug , one of the newest devices for electronic shadowing .
cl02.16.0	ref	I put in new batteries so as to be certain I 'd have plenty of power and on my way out walked over to the regular parking stalls and stood looking at them thoughtfully .
cl02.16.1	post-adv	I so as to be certain I 'd have plenty of power put in new batteries and on my way out walked over to the regular parking stalls and stood looking at them thoughtfully .
cl02.17.0	ref	I waited until the parking attendant was busy with a customer , then slipped around the back of the car with license number JYM 114 , attached the electronic bug to the rear bumper and walked out .
cl02.17.1	post-adv	I until the parking attendant was busy with a customer waited , then slipped around the back of the car with license number JYM 114 , attached the electronic bug to the rear bumper and walked out .
cl02.19.0	ref	One of the hardest chores a detective has is hanging around on a city street , trying to make himself inconspicuous , keeping an eye on the entrance of an office building and waiting .
cl02.19.1	post-adj2	One of the hardest chores a detective has is hanging on a city street around , trying to make himself inconspicuous , keeping an eye on the entrance of an office building and waiting .
cl02.21.0	ref	After a while , however , a person 's mind gets fed up and that magnifies all of the disagreeable physical symptoms which go with that sort of an assignment .
cl02.21.1	pre-adj2	However , after a while , a person 's mind gets fed up and that magnifies all of the disagreeable physical symptoms which go with that sort of an assignment .
cl02.25.0	ref	I waited a solid two hours before my man came out of the office building .
cl02.25.1	post-adv	Before my man came out of the office building I waited a solid two hours .
cl02.26.0	ref	He came out alone .
cl02.26.1	post-adj2	He came alone out .
cl02.27.0	ref	I was n't far behind him when he entered the parking lot and hurried over to his car .
cl02.27.1	post-adv	When he entered the parking lot and hurried over to his car I was n't far behind him .
cl02.29.0	ref	`` I have n't made up my mind yet '' , I said .
cl02.29.1	quote	`` I have n't made up my mind yet '' , said I .
cl02.32.0	ref	`` That curb parking is undependable and annoying , particularly when it rains '' , he said .
cl02.32.1	post-adv	`` Particularly when it rains , that curb parking is undependable and annoying '' , he said .
cl02.32.2	quote	`` That curb parking is undependable and annoying , particularly when it rains '' , said he .
cl02.38.0	ref	`` I 'll have one of the boys get it '' , he said .
cl02.38.1	quote	`` I 'll have one of the boys get it '' , said he .
cl02.42.0	ref	`` Oh , that 's all right '' , he said .
cl02.42.1	quote	`` Oh , that 's all right '' , said he .
cl02.47.0	ref	I grinned at him , handed him a couple of dollars and said , `` By the time you get the parking charge figured up , there should be a cigar in it for you '' .
cl02.47.1	dat-np-np	I grinned at him , handed a couple of dollars to him and said , `` By the time you get the parking charge figured up , there should be a cigar in it for you '' .
cl02.57.0	ref	If it ever got behind me , the beep turned to a buzz .
cl02.57.1	pre-adv	The beep turned to a buzz , if it ever got behind me .
cl02.58.0	ref	I turned left too soon and got a signal showing that I was still behind him but he was to the right .
cl02.58.1	post-adj2	I turned too soon left and got a signal showing that I was still behind him but he was to the right .
cl02.61.0	ref	I made a big circle until I located the car parked at the curb in front of an apartment house .
cl02.61.1	post-adv	Until I located the car parked at the curb in front of an apartment house I made a big circle .
cl02.61.2	post-adj2	I made a big circle until I located the car parked in front of an apartment house at the curb .
cl02.63.0	ref	My quarry was in the apartment house for two hours .
cl02.63.1	post-adj2	My quarry was for two hours in the apartment house .
cl02.66.0	ref	I could get up close to him where there was traffic but had to drop far behind when there was n't traffic .
cl02.66.1	post-adv	I could get up close to him where there was traffic but had when there was n't traffic to drop far behind .
cl02.67.0	ref	My lights would have been a giveaway if I 'd tried to shadow him in the conventional manner .
cl02.67.1	post-adv	My lights would if I 'd tried to shadow him in the conventional manner have been a giveaway .
cl02.68.0	ref	Moreover , I 'd have lost him if it had n't been for the electronic shadowing device .
cl02.68.1	post-adv	Moreover , I 'd if it had n't been for the electronic shadowing device have lost him .
cl02.69.0	ref	His signal was coming loud and clear and then all of a sudden it turned to a buzz .
cl02.69.1	pre-adj2	His signal was coming loud and clear and all of a sudden then it turned to a buzz .
cl02.73.0	ref	My man came out an hour later , drove to the beach , turned right and after half a mile went to the Swim and Tan Motel .
cl02.73.1	post-adj2	My man came an hour later out , drove to the beach , turned right and after half a mile went to the Swim and Tan Motel .
cl02.76.0	ref	I waited until my man was coming out of the office with the key to a cabin before I went in to register .
cl02.76.1	post-adv	Until my man was coming out of the office with the key to a cabin I waited before I went in to register .
cl02.76.2	post-adv	Before I went in to register I waited until my man was coming out of the office with the key to a cabin .
cl02.76.3	post-adj2	I waited until my man was coming with the key to a cabin out of the office before I went in to register .
cl02.77.0	ref	The card the man I was shadowing had filled out was still on the counter .
cl02.77.1	post-adj2	The card the man I was shadowing had filled out was on the counter still .
cl02.81.0	ref	If he does , it 's still better than an even chance he wo n't notice the transposition of the numbers , and if he should notice it , the thing can be passed off as an honest mistake .
cl02.81.1	pre-adv	It 's still better than an even chance he wo n't notice the transposition of the numbers , if he does , and if he should notice it , the thing can be passed off as an honest mistake .
cl02.81.2	pre-adv	If he does , it 's still better than an even chance he wo n't notice the transposition of the numbers , and the thing can be passed off as an honest mistake , if he should notice it .
cl02.85.0	ref	She was complying with the law in regard to registrations but she certainly was n't checking license numbers or bothering the tenants .
cl02.85.1	post-adj2	She was complying in regard to registrations with the law but she certainly was n't checking license numbers or bothering the tenants .
cl02.90.0	ref	`` If you expect her to show up '' , she said , `` you 'd better put ' and wife ' on there .
cl02.90.1	pre-adv	She said , `` you 'd better put ' and wife ' on there `` if you expect her to show up '' .
cl02.96.0	ref	There are three soft-drink vending machines , and if you should be joined by -- anybody -- try to keep things quiet , if you will .
cl02.96.1	post-adv	There are three soft-drink vending machines , and , if you will , if you should be joined by -- anybody -- try to keep things quiet .
cl02.96.2	pre-adv	There are three soft-drink vending machines , and try to keep things quiet , if you will if you should be joined by -- anybody .
cl02.98.0	ref	`` Thank you '' , I told her .
cl02.98.1	quote	`` Thank you '' , told I her .
cl02.99.0	ref	I took another sidelong glance at the other registration card , then took the key to Unit 13 that she had given me and went down long enough to park the car .
cl02.99.1	post-adj2	I took another sidelong glance at the other registration card , then took the key to Unit 13 that she had given me and went long enough to park the car down .
cl02.107.0	ref	It 's one thing to go without food when you 're occupied with some work or when you 're simply postponing a meal , but when you 're dependent on someone else and know that you ca n't eat until he 's bedded down for the night , hunger can be a gnawing torture .
cl02.107.1	post-adv	It 's one thing when you 're occupied with some work or when you 're simply postponing a meal to go without food , but when you 're dependent on someone else and know that you ca n't eat until he 's bedded down for the night , hunger can be a gnawing torture .
cl02.107.2	post-adv	It 's one thing to go without food when you 're occupied with some work or when you 're simply postponing a meal , but when you 're dependent on someone else and know that you until he 's bedded down for the night ca n't eat , hunger can be a gnawing torture .
cl02.107.3	pre-adv	It 's one thing to go without food when you 're occupied with some work or when you 're simply postponing a meal , but hunger can be a gnawing torture , when you 're dependent on someone else and know that you ca n't eat until he 's bedded down for the night .
cl02.117.0	ref	`` There may not be any women left '' , I said .
cl02.117.1	quote	`` There may not be any women left '' , said I .
cl02.118.0	ref	She gave a little pout and said , `` I do n't get off work until eleven o'clock .
cl02.118.1	post-adj2	She gave a little pout and said , `` I do n't get until eleven o'clock off work .
cl02.120.0	ref	`` I 'll be here at ten-fifty-five '' , I said .
cl02.120.1	quote	`` I 'll be here at ten-fifty-five '' , said I .
cl02.120.2	post-adj2	`` I 'll be at ten-fifty-five here '' , I said .
cl02.124.0	ref	I said `` Darn it , that 's the automatic signal that shows when the ignition key is on .
cl02.124.1	post-adv	I said `` Darn it , that 's the automatic signal that when the ignition key is on shows .
cl02.127.0	ref	She went in to get the hamburgers , and I switched on the device again and kept the signal from Dowling 's car coming in steady and clear until I saw her starting back with the hamburgers .
cl02.127.1	post-adv	She went in to get the hamburgers , and I switched on the device again and kept until I saw her starting back with the hamburgers the signal from Dowling 's car coming in steady and clear .
cl02.129.0	ref	She wanted to hang around while I was eating .
cl02.129.1	post-adv	She wanted while I was eating to hang around .
cl02.130.0	ref	`` Do n't you think it 's selfish to have dinner before you go to pick her up '' ?
cl02.130.1	post-adv	`` Do n't you think it 's selfish before you go to pick her up to have dinner '' ?
cl02.134.0	ref	She 'll eat just a pineapple and cottage cheese salad and I 'm to have one with her so she wo n't feel out of place '' .
cl02.134.1	post-adv	She 'll eat just a pineapple and cottage cheese salad and I 'm so she wo n't feel out of place to have one with her '' .
cl02.135.0	ref	`` Diets can be terrible '' , the girl said .
cl02.135.1	quote	`` Diets can be terrible '' , said the girl .
cl02.138.0	ref	She looked at me provocatively .
cl02.138.1	post-adj2	She looked provocatively at me .
cl02.139.0	ref	`` Good figures should be kept in hand '' , she said , and walked away with an exaggerated wiggle .
cl02.139.1	quote	`` Good figures should be kept in hand '' , said , and walked she away with an exaggerated wiggle .
cl02.141.0	ref	When I switched on the lights for her to come and get the check , I had the exact change plus a dollar tip .
cl02.141.1	post-adv	When for her to come and get the check I switched on the lights , I had the exact change plus a dollar tip .
cl02.141.2	pre-adv	I had the exact change plus a dollar tip , when I switched on the lights for her to come and get the check .
cl03.6.0	ref	`` So even if we was as dumb as you take us for , we could still find it '' .
cl03.6.1	pre-adv	`` So we could still find it , even if we was as dumb as you take us for '' .
cl03.13.0	ref	`` Canada does n't have much of this here juvenile delinquency problem , but we keep a night policeman all the same on account of the crazy tourists '' .
cl03.13.1	post-adj2	`` Canada does n't have much of this here juvenile delinquency problem , but we keep a night policeman on account of the crazy tourists all the same '' .
cl03.15.0	ref	Roberta glanced up at her husband .
cl03.15.1	post-adj2	Roberta glanced at her husband up .
cl03.16.0	ref	He was going to be sensible and not try to do anything rash with that gun pointed at him .
cl03.16.1	post-adv	He with that gun pointed at him was going to be sensible and not try to do anything rash .
cl03.20.0	ref	Dave had the latch under his thumb now and he removed his arm from his wife in order to pull the door open .
cl03.20.1	post-adv	Dave had the latch under his thumb now and in order to pull the door open he removed his arm from his wife .
cl03.20.2	post-adj2	Dave had the latch now under his thumb and he removed his arm from his wife in order to pull the door open .
cl03.31.0	ref	As she reached Dave and felt his arm go around her , felt him pull her to the safety of his person , she knew with the certainty of despair that something bad had happened to Lauren .
cl03.31.1	pre-adv	She knew with the certainty of despair that something bad had happened to Lauren , as she reached Dave and felt his arm go around her , felt him pull her to the safety of his person .
cl03.32.0	ref	The two men watched as Dave closed the door behind them , watched them cross the sidewalk to their car .
cl03.32.1	post-adv	The two men as Dave closed the door behind them watched , watched them cross the sidewalk to their car .
cl03.35.0	ref	The thin man moved swiftly to the phone and dialed a number .
cl03.35.1	post-adj2	The thin man moved to the phone swiftly and dialed a number .
cl03.36.0	ref	When he was answered , he said , `` Albert ?
cl03.36.1	pre-adv	He said , `` Albert , when he was answered ?
cl03.38.0	ref	I 'm sending you a couple of customers -- yeah -- just get them out of my hair and keep them out -- I do n't give a damn what you tell them -- only do n't believe a word they say -- they 're out to make trouble for me and it is up to you to stop them -- I do n't care how -- and one more thing -- Cate 's Cafe closed at eleven like always last night and Rose and Clarence Corsi left for Quebec yesterday -- some shrine or other -- I think it was called Saint Simon 's -- yeah , yesterday .
cl03.38.1	dat-np-np	I 'm sending a couple of customers to you -- yeah -- just get them out of my hair and keep them out -- I do n't give a damn what you tell them -- only do n't believe a word they say -- they 're out to make trouble for me and it is up to you to stop them -- I do n't care how -- and one more thing -- Cate 's Cafe closed at eleven like always last night and Rose and Clarence Corsi left for Quebec yesterday -- some shrine or other -- I think it was called Saint Simon 's -- yeah , yesterday .
cl03.38.2	dat-np-np	I 'm sending you a couple of customers -- yeah -- just get them out of my hair and keep them out -- I do n't give a damn what you tell them -- only do n't believe a word they say -- they 're out to make trouble for me and it is up to you to stop them -- I do n't care how -- and one more thing -- Cate 's Cafe closed at eleven like always last night and Rose and Clarence Corsi left for Quebec some shrine or other -- to yesterday -- I think it was called Saint Simon 's -- yeah , yesterday .
cl03.41.0	ref	The white Buick had n't moved away yet .
cl03.41.1	post-adj2	The white Buick had n't moved yet away .
cl03.50.0	ref	`` Remember how she looked when Barney held the door for her ?
cl03.50.1	post-adv	`` Remember how when Barney held the door for her she looked ?
cl03.52.0	ref	She was just waking up when we found her at the garage '' .
cl03.52.1	post-adv	She when we found her at the garage was just waking up '' .
cl03.54.0	ref	`` Stupid fools -- ai n't got enough brains between the two of you '' -- Grosse muttered , his head down , one hand playing with the zipper on his jacket .
cl03.54.1	quote	`` Stupid fools -- ai n't got enough brains between the two of you '' -- muttered Grosse , his head down , one hand playing with the zipper on his jacket .
cl03.55.0	ref	`` had enough brains to call ya up so as ya could do sompin about it when the parents -- I coulda let her go go '' -- His eyes were lowered , so he could n't have seen the narrow , pointed face of his companion suddenly writhe with fury ; but he was aware of it just the same .
cl03.55.1	post-adv	`` Had enough brains so as ya could do sompin about it when the parents -- to call ya up I coulda let her go go '' -- His eyes were lowered , so he could n't have seen the narrow , pointed face of his companion suddenly writhe with fury ; but he was aware of it just the same .
cl03.55.2	post-adv	`` Had enough brains to call ya up so as ya when the parents -- could do sompin about it I coulda let her go go '' -- His eyes were lowered , so he could n't have seen the narrow , pointed face of his companion suddenly writhe with fury ; but he was aware of it just the same .
cl03.65.0	ref	Once he said , `` Why 'n hell did n't you look in the back seat of the car before you drove off ?
cl03.65.1	post-adv	Once he said , `` Why 'n hell before you drove off did n't you look in the back seat of the car ?
cl03.85.0	ref	`` You and Barney get her over to Rose 's before it gets too light .
cl03.85.1	post-adv	Before it gets too light `` you and Barney get her over to Rose 's .
cl03.86.0	ref	After Guardino 's left , we 'll dump the kid somewhere near the border where she kin get home .
cl03.86.1	pre-adv	We 'll dump the kid somewhere near the border where she kin get home , after Guardino 's left .
cl03.87.0	ref	God help you if she knows where she 's been '' .
cl03.87.1	post-adv	If she knows where she 's been God help you '' .
cl03.89.0	ref	`` What am I going to do with her all day ?
cl03.89.1	post-adj2	`` What am I going to do all day with her ?
cl03.91.0	ref	`` What the hell do I care what you do with her all day ?
cl03.91.1	post-adj2	`` What the hell do I care what you do all day with her ?
cl03.100.0	ref	I wish you luck when you try scaring that kid '' .
cl03.100.1	dat-np-np	I wish luck to you when you try scaring that kid '' .
cl03.100.2	post-adv	When you try scaring that kid I wish you luck '' .
cl03.107.0	ref	Vince lifted his hand as if to strike , but his thin lips spread in a smile .
cl03.107.1	post-adv	As if to strike Vince lifted his hand , but his thin lips spread in a smile .
cl03.111.0	ref	And I ai n't going back there on account of one lousy kid '' .
cl03.111.1	post-adj3	And I ai n't going there back on account of one lousy kid '' .
cl03.111.2	post-adj3	And I ai n't going on account of one lousy kid there back '' .
cl03.111.3	post-adj3	And I ai n't going back on account of one lousy kid there '' .
cl03.111.4	post-adj3	And I ai n't going on account of one lousy kid back there '' .
cl03.111.5	post-adj3	And I ai n't going there on account of one lousy kid back '' .
cl03.113.0	ref	She had cried a little because she was frightened .
cl03.113.1	post-adv	She because she was frightened had cried a little .
cl03.120.0	ref	She jumped as the little man now appeared at the window and , reaching through the opening , offered her a bottle of coke .
cl03.120.1	dat-np-np	She jumped as the little man now appeared at the window and , reaching through the opening , offered a bottle of coke to her .
cl03.120.2	post-adv	As the little man now appeared at the window and , reaching through the opening , offered her a bottle of coke she jumped .
cl03.121.0	ref	She smiled at him wetly .
cl03.121.1	post-adj2	She smiled wetly at him .
cl03.122.0	ref	Although she found she was thirsty , she was about to refuse -LRB- never , never take candy from a strange man -RRB- when she saw the bottle was unopened .
cl03.122.1	post-adv	When she saw the bottle was unopened although she found she was thirsty , she was about to refuse -LRB- never , never take candy from a strange man -RRB- .
cl03.122.2	pre-adv	She was about to refuse -LRB- never , never take candy from a strange man -RRB- when she saw the bottle was unopened , although she found she was thirsty .
cl03.128.0	ref	When she was finished she pushed it back .
cl03.128.1	pre-adv	She pushed it back when she was finished .
cl03.139.0	ref	He dropped it and carefully ground it to nothing with the sole of his heavy shoe .
cl03.139.1	post-adj2	He dropped it and carefully ground it with the sole of his heavy shoe to nothing .
cl03.144.0	ref	She dropped her head on her arms on the counter .
cl03.144.1	post-adj2	She dropped her head on the counter on her arms .
cl03.156.0	ref	Her father 's attention would be on the road ahead and it would n't deviate an inch until he crossed the bridge at the Falls and took the River Road to LaSalle and , finally , turned in at their own driveway at 387 Heather Heights .
cl03.156.1	post-adv	Her father 's attention would be on the road ahead and it until he crossed the bridge at the Falls and took the River Road to LaSalle and , finally , turned in at their own driveway at 387 Heather Heights would n't deviate an inch .
cl03.156.2	post-adj2	Her father 's attention would be on the road ahead and it would n't deviate an inch until he crossed the bridge at the Falls and took the River Road to LaSalle and , finally , turned at their own driveway at 387 Heather Heights in .
cl03.162.0	ref	Roberta Landis put her hand on her husband 's arm as he slid in the driver 's seat beside her .
cl03.162.1	post-adv	As he slid in the driver 's seat beside her Roberta Landis put her hand on her husband 's arm .
cl03.164.0	ref	Her teeth chattered so that she made three attempts at speech before she became intelligible .
cl03.164.1	post-adv	So that she made three attempts at speech before she became intelligible her teeth chattered .
cl03.164.2	post-adv	Her teeth chattered so that before she became intelligible she made three attempts at speech .
cl03.181.0	ref	I can sit here in the car while you walk around the corner '' .
cl03.181.1	post-adv	I while you walk around the corner can sit here in the car '' .
cl03.181.2	post-adj2	I can sit in the car here while you walk around the corner '' .
cl03.182.0	ref	The big car sprang away from the curb like something alive .
cl03.182.1	post-adj2	The big car sprang like something alive away from the curb .
cl03.183.0	ref	He said , `` I 'm not going to leave my wife and my car out here in sight of those '' -- Roberta glanced at him and stopped trembling .
cl03.183.1	post-adj2	He said , `` I 'm not going to leave my wife and my car in sight of those out here '' -- Roberta glanced at him and stopped trembling .
cl04.3.0	ref	His eyes were threaded by little filaments of red as if tiny veins had burst and flooded blood into them .
cl04.3.1	post-adv	His eyes as if tiny veins had burst and flooded blood into them were threaded by little filaments of red .
cl04.4.0	ref	As he chewed his gum and exuded wheezing breath , Marty smelt the reek of bad whiskey .
cl04.4.1	pre-adv	Marty smelt the reek of bad whiskey , as he chewed his gum and exuded wheezing breath .
cl04.8.0	ref	Marty smiled at Squire pleasantly and said , `` There was a cab waiting for me here .
cl04.8.1	post-adj2	Marty smiled pleasantly at Squire and said , `` There was a cab waiting for me here .
cl04.16.0	ref	He avoided showing any surprise or annoyance when no one answered him .
cl04.16.1	post-adv	He avoided when no one answered him showing any surprise or annoyance .
cl04.17.0	ref	`` I have to get back to Jarrodsville '' , he went on .
cl04.17.1	quote	`` I have to get back to Jarrodsville '' , went he on .
cl04.17.2	post-adj2	`` I have to get to Jarrodsville back '' , he went on .
cl04.19.0	ref	I wonder if one of you gentlemen could drive me back to town ?
cl04.19.1	post-adj2	I wonder if one of you gentlemen could drive me to town back ?
cl04.21.0	ref	The seventeen men stood and stared at him for a moment longer .
cl04.21.1	post-adj2	The seventeen men stood and stared for a moment longer at him .
cl04.23.0	ref	It was so utterly unexpected that Marty stood for several moments with his mouth hanging open foolishly after it had happened .
cl04.23.1	post-adv	It was so utterly unexpected that after it had happened Marty stood for several moments with his mouth hanging open foolishly .
cl04.23.2	post-adj2	It was so utterly unexpected that Marty stood with his mouth hanging open foolishly for several moments after it had happened .
cl04.27.0	ref	The station wagon and the old Plymouth headed east toward Jarrodsville .
cl04.27.1	post-adj2	The station wagon and the old Plymouth headed toward Jarrodsville east .
cl04.28.0	ref	The Ford and the pickup truck sped west toward Sanford 's Run .
cl04.28.1	post-adj2	The Ford and the pickup truck sped toward Sanford 's Run west .
cl04.30.0	ref	Marty Land stood alone on a red-clay road as storm clouds gathered ominously in the sky again .
cl04.30.1	post-adv	As storm clouds gathered ominously in the sky again Marty Land stood alone on a red-clay road .
cl04.30.2	post-adj2	Marty Land stood on a red-clay road alone as storm clouds gathered ominously in the sky again .
cl04.47.0	ref	After he had proceeded a few feet , he paused and turned up the cuffs of his trousers , which were already damp and mud-caked .
cl04.47.1	pre-adv	He paused and turned up the cuffs of his trousers , which were already damp and mud-caked , after he had proceeded a few feet .
cl04.49.0	ref	As he approached the first farmhouse , thunder sounded behind him again , closer now and louder , like a steadily advancing drum corps .
cl04.49.1	pre-adv	Thunder sounded behind him again , closer now and louder , like a steadily advancing drum corps , as he approached the first farmhouse .
cl04.49.2	post-adj2	As he approached the first farmhouse , thunder sounded again behind him , closer now and louder , like a steadily advancing drum corps .
cl04.51.0	ref	There was a very old man and a young woman and a brood of children ranging from toddlers to teen-agers .
cl04.51.1	post-adj2	There was a very old man and a young woman and a brood of children ranging to teen-agers from toddlers .
cl04.55.0	ref	They were staring at him in the same blank and menacing way that the men outside the gate had stared .
cl04.55.1	post-adj2	They were staring in the same blank and menacing way that the men outside the gate had stared at him .
cl04.59.0	ref	The drums of thunder were right behind him now .
cl04.59.1	post-adj2	The drums of thunder were now right behind him .
cl04.64.0	ref	The steady roll of the drums had sounded behind him as he walked between the endless ranks of the men he had commanded , and each man about-faced and turned his back as the officer approached .
cl04.64.1	post-adv	The steady roll of the drums as he walked between the endless ranks of the men he had commanded had sounded behind him , and each man about-faced and turned his back as the officer approached .
cl04.64.2	post-adv	The steady roll of the drums had sounded behind him as he walked between the endless ranks of the men he had commanded , and as the officer approached each man about-faced and turned his back .
cl04.67.0	ref	Now the dirt highway was bordered on either side by a fairly deep drainage ditch , too broad to leap over unless you were an Olympic star .
cl04.67.1	post-adv	Now the dirt highway was bordered on either side by a fairly deep drainage ditch , too broad unless you were an Olympic star to leap over .
cl04.67.2	post-adj2	Now the dirt highway was bordered by a fairly deep drainage ditch , too broad to leap over unless you were an Olympic star on either side .
cl04.69.0	ref	He was trapped on the road when he heard the sound of an approaching car .
cl04.69.1	post-adv	He when he heard the sound of an approaching car was trapped on the road .
cl04.72.0	ref	Marty 's heart skipped a beat when he recognized it .
cl04.72.1	post-adv	When he recognized it Marty 's heart skipped a beat .
cl04.75.0	ref	It had headed back toward Jarrodsville .
cl04.75.1	post-adj2	It had headed toward Jarrodsville back .
cl04.78.0	ref	The station wagon came to a stop a couple of hundred feet in front of him , beside a fenced field .
cl04.78.1	post-adj3	The station wagon came a couple of hundred feet in front of him to a stop , beside a fenced field .
cl04.78.2	post-adj3	The station wagon came beside a fenced field a couple of hundred feet in front of him , to a stop .
cl04.78.3	post-adj3	The station wagon came to a stop beside a fenced field , a couple of hundred feet in front of him .
cl04.78.4	post-adj3	The station wagon came , beside a fenced field , to a stop a couple of hundred feet in front of him .
cl04.78.5	post-adj3	The station wagon came a couple of hundred feet in front of him , beside a fenced field to a stop .
cl04.82.0	ref	Marty looked helplessly in both directions .
cl04.82.1	post-adj2	Marty looked in both directions helplessly .
cl04.85.0	ref	When the two cars were equidistant from him , the station wagon started up again and the Ford gathered speed .
cl04.85.1	pre-adv	The station wagon started up again , when the two cars were equidistant from him , and the Ford gathered speed .
cl04.88.0	ref	He jumped , and sank to his knees in muddy water .
cl04.88.1	post-adj2	He jumped , and sank in muddy water to his knees .
cl04.89.0	ref	As the two cars roared by , there was a high-pitched eerie , nerve-shattering sound .
cl04.89.1	pre-adv	There was a high-pitched eerie , nerve-shattering sound , as the two cars roared by .
cl04.90.0	ref	Marty knew how the Union soldiers must have felt at Chancellorsville and Antietam and Gettysburg when the ragged gray ranks charged at them , screaming the wild banshee howl they called the Rebel yell .
cl04.90.1	post-adv	Marty knew how the Union soldiers must when the ragged gray ranks charged at them , screaming the wild banshee howl they called the Rebel yell have felt at Chancellorsville and Antietam and Gettysburg .
cl04.95.0	ref	They would be coming for him next , bearing down on him from both directions .
cl04.95.1	post-adj2	They would be coming next for him , bearing down on him from both directions .
cl04.101.0	ref	That way was barred on both sides of the road by a high barbed-wire fence .
cl04.101.1	post-adj2	That way was barred by a high barbed-wire fence on both sides of the road .
cl04.103.0	ref	At least he could climb up on the fence when his tormenters roared by again .
cl04.103.1	post-adv	At least he when his tormenters roared by again could climb up on the fence .
cl04.104.0	ref	The Admassy place could not be far now .
cl04.104.1	post-adj2	The Admassy place could not be now far .
cl04.107.0	ref	He did not dare climb back up to the road .
cl04.107.1	post-adj2	He did not dare climb up to the road back .
cl04.109.0	ref	He splashed on , mud sucking at his feet with each step , until he reached the end of the drainage ditch and the beginning of the fence that enclosed the farm .
cl04.109.1	post-adv	Until he reached the end of the drainage ditch and the beginning of the fence that enclosed the farm , he splashed on , mud sucking at his feet with each step .
cl04.110.0	ref	He climbed back to the road , and he felt utterly exhausted .
cl04.110.1	post-adj2	He climbed to the road back , and he felt utterly exhausted .
cl04.113.0	ref	The fence , his only refuge when the metal death came roaring at him , was made of rails , all right , but the rails were protected by a thick screening of barbed wire that would rip his flesh if he pressed against it .
cl04.113.1	post-adv	The fence , his only refuge when the metal death came roaring at him , was made of rails , all right , but the rails were protected by a thick screening of barbed wire that if he pressed against it would rip his flesh .
cl04.114.0	ref	He lurched on down the road despairingly , because there was no place else to go .
cl04.114.1	post-adv	Because there was no place else to go , he lurched on down the road despairingly .
cl04.114.2	post-adj3	He lurched down the road on despairingly , because there was no place else to go .
cl04.114.3	post-adj3	He lurched despairingly down the road on , because there was no place else to go .
cl04.114.4	post-adj3	He lurched on despairingly down the road , because there was no place else to go .
cl04.114.5	post-adj3	He lurched , despairingly , on down the road because there was no place else to go .
cl04.114.6	post-adj3	He lurched down the road despairingly on , because there was no place else to go .
cl04.116.0	ref	You could not stand on dignity when you were soaked and muddied and your life was at stake .
cl04.116.1	post-adv	You when you were soaked and muddied and your life was at stake could not stand on dignity .
cl04.117.0	ref	Probably people were watching him from the porch or from behind the windows of this farmhouse , too , but he did not bother to look .
cl04.117.1	post-adj2	Probably people were watching him too , from the porch or from behind the windows of this farmhouse , but he did not bother to look .
cl04.122.0	ref	The fences stretched on endlessly .
cl04.122.1	post-adj2	The fences stretched endlessly on .
cl04.125.0	ref	The Plymouth was coming at him from the east , the pickup truck from the west .
cl04.125.1	post-adj2	The Plymouth was coming from the east at him , the pickup truck from the west .
cl04.126.0	ref	They had timed it better this time .
cl04.126.1	post-adj2	They had timed it this time better .
cl04.129.0	ref	If he backed against the fence , one of the cars would brush him as it passed , and he would be cruelly lacerated by the wire .
cl04.129.1	post-adv	If he backed against the fence , one of the cars as it passed would brush him , and he would be cruelly lacerated by the wire .
cl04.129.2	pre-adv	One of the cars would brush him as it passed , if he backed against the fence , and he would be cruelly lacerated by the wire .
cl04.132.0	ref	They were coming on at reckless speed for such old vehicles .
cl04.132.1	post-adj2	They were coming at reckless speed for such old vehicles on .
cl04.135.0	ref	When the Plymouth neared , it veered toward him and seemed about to run him down .
cl04.135.1	pre-adv	It veered toward him and seemed about to run him down , when the Plymouth neared .
cl04.137.0	ref	If he moved , he would be in the path of the other car .
cl04.137.1	pre-adv	He would be in the path of the other car , if he moved .
cl04.138.0	ref	He thought the fender of the Plymouth brushed his jacket as it went by .
cl04.138.1	post-adv	He thought as it went by the fender of the Plymouth brushed his jacket .
cl04.139.0	ref	In a fraction of a second the pickup truck hurtled by on the other side .
cl04.139.1	post-adj2	In a fraction of a second the pickup truck hurtled on the other side by .
cl04.145.0	ref	He was going to make it , he told himself .
cl04.145.1	quote	He was going to make it , told he himself .
cl04.156.0	ref	There was someone in front with the sheriff .
cl04.156.1	post-adj2	There was someone with the sheriff in front .
cl04.161.0	ref	If I 'd stayed , all that I 'd have got was four punctured tires and one busted head .
cl04.161.1	pre-adv	All that I 'd have got was four punctured tires and one busted head , if I 'd stayed .
cl04.164.0	ref	I was lucky they let me go , I guess '' .
cl04.164.1	quote	I was lucky they let me go , guess I '' .
cl04.166.0	ref	When it was finally pointed east , he said , `` You should never have come out here alone .
cl04.166.1	pre-adv	He said , `` You should never have come out here alone , when it was finally pointed east .
cl05.2.0	ref	Rourke was talking on the phone when he came back .
cl05.2.1	post-adv	Rourke when he came back was talking on the phone .
cl05.6.0	ref	He turned his head and said , `` Alvarez will definitely be in a back room at the Jai Alai Club on South Beach within an hour .
cl05.6.1	post-adj2	He turned his head and said , `` Alvarez will definitely be within an hour in a back room at the Jai Alai Club on South Beach .
cl05.13.0	ref	`` I do n't know what you 're getting into , Mike '' , he said unhappily .
cl05.13.1	quote	`` I do n't know what you 're getting into , Mike '' , said he unhappily .
cl05.15.0	ref	Shayne said briskly , `` Grab another drink if you want it .
cl05.15.1	post-adv	Shayne said briskly , `` if you want it Grab another drink .
cl05.16.0	ref	We 've got one other call to make before I meet Alvarez '' .
cl05.16.1	post-adv	We 've got one other call before I meet Alvarez to make '' .
cl05.21.0	ref	Rourke hastily slopped whiskey into his glass on top of half-melted ice-cubes .
cl05.21.1	post-adj2	Rourke hastily slopped whiskey on top of half-melted ice-cubes into his glass .
cl05.22.0	ref	`` I 'd better keep on driving yours '' , Shayne decided , `` because I 'll be going on over to the Beach .
cl05.22.1	post-adv	`` I `` because I 'll be going on over to the Beach 'd better keep on driving yours '' , Shayne decided .
cl05.22.2	post-adj2	`` I 'd better keep on driving yours '' , Shayne decided , `` because I 'll be going over to the Beach on .
cl05.28.0	ref	At least , I want to find out whether she 's home yet or not '' .
cl05.28.1	post-adj2	At least , I want to find out whether she 's yet home or not '' .
cl05.31.0	ref	As he drove , he filled in Timothy Rourke briefly on the events of the evening after leaving the reporter to go to the Peralta house , and on his own surmises .
cl05.31.1	pre-adv	He filled in Timothy Rourke briefly on the events of the evening after leaving the reporter to go to the Peralta house , and on his own surmises , as he drove .
cl05.31.2	post-adj2	As he drove , he filled in Timothy Rourke on the events of the evening after leaving the reporter to go to the Peralta house , and on his own surmises briefly .
cl05.32.0	ref	`` I want to be in Scotty 's Bar at midnight when Marsha makes her phone call there '' , he ended grimly .
cl05.32.1	quote	`` I want to be in Scotty 's Bar at midnight when Marsha makes her phone call there '' , ended he grimly .
cl05.34.0	ref	`` This deal at Las Putas Buenas where the two knife-men jumped you '' , said Rourke with interest , `` that sounds like it was set up with malice aforethought by the luscious Mrs. Peralta , does n't it '' ?
cl05.34.1	post-adj2	`` This deal at Las Putas Buenas where the two knife-men jumped you '' , said Rourke with interest , `` that sounds like it was set up by the luscious Mrs. Peralta with malice aforethought , does n't it '' ?
cl05.35.0	ref	`` It does '' , Shayne grunted sourly , still able to taste her mouth on his in the Green Jungle parking lot .
cl05.35.1	quote	`` It does '' , grunted Shayne sourly , still able to taste her mouth on his in the Green Jungle parking lot .
cl05.36.0	ref	`` That story of hers about an unsigned note directing her to be there tonight sounds completely phony .
cl05.36.1	post-adj2	`` That story of hers about an unsigned note directing her to be tonight there sounds completely phony .
cl05.37.0	ref	If it was designed to put me on the spot , it would have to have been written before Peralta ever called me in on the case '' .
cl05.37.1	post-adv	If it was designed to put me on the spot , it would have to have before Peralta ever called me in on the case been written '' .
cl05.37.2	pre-adv	It would have to have been written before Peralta ever called me in on the case , if it was designed to put me on the spot '' .
cl05.42.0	ref	Shayne asked , peering ahead at the partially obscured street sign .
cl05.42.1	post-adj2	Shayne asked , peering at the partially obscured street sign ahead .
cl05.43.0	ref	Rourke could see it better out the right-hand side , and he said , `` yes .
cl05.43.1	post-adj2	Rourke could see it out the right-hand side better , and he said , `` yes .
cl05.44.0	ref	Turn to the left , I think , for that number you gave me .
cl05.44.1	post-adj2	Turn for that number you gave me , I think , to the left .
cl05.47.0	ref	There was a small , neon-lighted restaurant and cocktail lounge on the southeast corner of the intersection as he turned into the quiet , palm-lined street where most of the houses on both sides were older two-story mansions , now cut up into furnished rooms and housekeeping apartments .
cl05.47.1	post-adv	As he turned into the quiet , palm-lined street where most of the houses on both sides were older two-story mansions , now cut up into furnished rooms and housekeeping apartments there was a small , neon-lighted restaurant and cocktail lounge on the southeast corner of the intersection .
cl05.48.0	ref	Shayne drove westward from the Boulevard slowly , letting Rourke crane his head out the window and watch for street numbers .
cl05.48.1	post-adj2	Shayne drove slowly westward from the Boulevard , letting Rourke crane his head out the window and watch for street numbers .
cl05.49.0	ref	A single automobile was parked half-way up the block on the left-hand side .
cl05.49.1	post-adj2	A single automobile was parked on the left-hand side half-way up the block .
cl05.50.0	ref	Shayne noted idly that it carried Miami Beach license plates as he approached , and then saw the flare of a match in the front seat as they passed , indicating that it was occupied .
cl05.50.1	post-adv	Shayne as he approached noted idly that it carried Miami Beach license plates , and then saw the flare of a match in the front seat as they passed , indicating that it was occupied .
cl05.50.2	post-adv	Shayne , as they passed , noted idly that it carried Miami Beach license plates as he approached , and then saw the flare of a match in the front seat indicating that it was occupied .
cl05.51.0	ref	He turned to see the briefly-illumed faces of two men in the parked car just as Rourke said , `` It 's the next house , Mike .
cl05.51.1	post-adv	Just as Rourke said , `` It 's the next house , Mike he turned to see the briefly-illumed faces of two men in the parked car .
cl05.55.0	ref	`` I told you , Mike '' , said Rourke in an aggrieved voice .
cl05.55.1	dat-np-np	`` I told Mike , to you '' , said Rourke in an aggrieved voice .
cl05.55.2	iquote	`` I told you , Mike '' , Rourke said in an aggrieved voice .
cl05.64.0	ref	I got a quick look at their faces as we went past .
cl05.64.1	post-adv	As we went past I got a quick look at their faces .
cl05.65.0	ref	Unless I 'm crazy as hell , they 're two of Painter 's dicks .
cl05.65.1	pre-adv	They 're two of Painter 's dicks , unless I 'm crazy as hell .
cl05.82.0	ref	If they are Beach cops on a stake-out , they 'll admit it to a reporter .
cl05.82.1	pre-adv	They 'll admit it to a reporter , if they are Beach cops on a stake-out .
cl05.84.0	ref	As soon as you find out if they are Geely and Harris , come on around to the lounge where I 'll be waiting '' .
cl05.84.1	post-adv	As soon as if they are Geely and Harris you find out , come on around to the lounge where I 'll be waiting '' .
cl05.84.2	post-adj2	As soon as you find out if they are Geely and Harris , come around to the lounge where I 'll be waiting on '' .
cl05.86.0	ref	Timothy Rourke groaned dismally as he slid under the wheel .
cl05.86.1	post-adv	As he slid under the wheel Timothy Rourke groaned dismally .
cl05.91.0	ref	He crossed the street and walked swiftly southward to circle back to the Boulevard and north a block to the open restaurant .
cl05.91.1	post-adj2	He crossed the street and walked southward to circle back to the Boulevard and north a block to the open restaurant swiftly .
cl05.92.0	ref	He was standing at the end of the bar enjoying a slug of cognac when Rourke came in six or eight minutes later .
cl05.92.1	post-adv	He when Rourke came in six or eight minutes later was standing at the end of the bar enjoying a slug of cognac .
cl05.93.0	ref	The reporter nodded as he moved up beside him at the bar .
cl05.93.1	post-adv	As he moved up beside him at the bar the reporter nodded .
cl05.93.2	post-adj3	The reporter nodded as he moved beside him up at the bar .
cl05.93.3	post-adj3	The reporter nodded as he moved at the bar beside him up .
cl05.93.4	post-adj3	The reporter nodded as he moved up at the bar beside him .
cl05.93.5	post-adj3	The reporter nodded as he moved at the bar up beside him .
cl05.93.6	post-adj3	The reporter nodded as he moved beside him at the bar up .
cl05.94.0	ref	Shayne told the bartender , `` Bourbon and water '' , and Rourke told him , `` It 's those two , all right .
cl05.94.1	dat-np-np	Shayne told bourbon and water , `` to the bartender '' , and Rourke told him , `` It 's those two , all right .
cl05.96.0	ref	I made them show me their identification before I could be persuaded not to call on Felice Perrin '' .
cl05.96.1	dat-np-np	I made them show their identification to me before I could be persuaded not to call on Felice Perrin '' .
cl05.96.2	post-adv	I before I could be persuaded not to call on Felice Perrin made them show me their identification '' .
cl05.104.0	ref	I 'll be waiting for you there '' .
cl05.104.1	post-adj2	I 'll be waiting there for you '' .
cl05.106.0	ref	He said in a low voice , `` I 've got a date with a lady , Mister .
cl05.106.1	dat-np-np	He said in a low voice , `` I 've got Mister , to a date with a lady .
cl05.108.0	ref	You know how it is '' , he added with a conspiratorial wink .
cl05.108.1	quote	You know how it is '' , added he with a conspiratorial wink .
cl05.109.0	ref	`` Candy is dandy , but liquor is quicker and you do n't have any candy for sale here anyhow '' .
cl05.109.1	post-adj2	`` Candy is dandy , but liquor is quicker and you do n't have any candy for sale anyhow here '' .
cl05.111.0	ref	The bartender winked back at him and palmed the bill .
cl05.111.1	post-adj2	The bartender winked at him back and palmed the bill .
cl05.113.0	ref	As the detective slid it into his pocket , Rourke asked sadly , `` What in hell are you going to do , Mike '' ?
cl05.113.1	pre-adv	Rourke asked sadly , `` What in hell are you going to do , Mike , as the detective slid it into his pocket '' ?
cl05.116.0	ref	Shayne strode out blithely , and Rourke checked his watch and sipped his drink , getting a dime ready to make the telephone call to the police .
cl05.116.1	post-adj2	Shayne strode blithely out , and Rourke checked his watch and sipped his drink , getting a dime ready to make the telephone call to the police .
cl05.117.0	ref	Outside , Shayne hesitated when he saw that Rourke had parked his coupe directly in front of the bar headed south .
cl05.117.1	post-adv	When he saw that Rourke had parked his coupe directly in front of the bar headed south outside , Shayne hesitated .
cl05.121.0	ref	He went swiftly up the sidewalk toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat .
cl05.121.1	post-adj3	He went up the sidewalk swiftly toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat .
cl05.121.2	post-adj3	He went toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat up the sidewalk swiftly .
cl05.121.3	post-adj3	He went swiftly toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat up the sidewalk .
cl05.121.4	post-adj3	He went toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat swiftly up the sidewalk .
cl05.121.5	post-adj3	He went up the sidewalk toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat swiftly .
cl05.122.0	ref	He tugged the brim of his hat low as he approached , stepped out into the street just behind the car and strode around to the right-hand side .
cl05.122.1	post-adv	He as he approached tugged the brim of his hat low , stepped out into the street just behind the car and strode around to the right-hand side .
cl05.122.2	post-adj2	He tugged the brim of his hat low as he approached , stepped just behind the car out into the street and strode around to the right-hand side .
cl05.124.0	ref	Shayne turned the handle and jerked the door open before either of the men were quite aware of his presence in the night .
cl05.124.1	post-adv	Shayne before either of the men were quite aware of his presence in the night turned the handle and jerked the door open .
cl05.125.0	ref	Geely grunted and slid partly out , and Shayne 's left arm snaked in around his neck to help him , while he set himself solidly on the roadway and swung his right fist to the big , gum-chewing jaw before Geely could straighten up .
cl05.125.1	post-adv	Geely grunted and slid partly out , and , while he set himself solidly on the roadway and swung his right fist to the big , gum-chewing jaw before Geely could straighten up , Shayne 's left arm snaked in around his neck to help him .
cl05.125.2	post-adv	Geely grunted and slid partly out , and Shayne 's left arm snaked in around his neck to help him , while he before Geely could straighten up set himself solidly on the roadway and swung his right fist to the big , gum-chewing jaw .
cl05.128.0	ref	He hit him once on the sharp point of his chin and felt the body go limp .
cl05.128.1	post-adj2	He hit him on the sharp point of his chin once and felt the body go limp .
cl05.129.0	ref	He dropped him into the street a couple of feet away from Geely 's recumbent figure and stared down at both of them for a moment before kicking the big man lightly in the side .
cl05.129.1	post-adj2	He dropped him a couple of feet away from Geely 's recumbent figure into the street and stared down at both of them for a moment before kicking the big man lightly in the side .
cl05.136.0	ref	Said they 'd have a patrol car here fast .
cl05.136.1	post-adj2	Said they 'd have a patrol car fast here .
cl05.139.0	ref	`` Why the two damned fools got all excited when they saw the bottle , and knocked each other out cold '' , Shayne said good-humoredly .
cl05.139.1	post-adv	`` Why the two damned fools when they saw the bottle got all excited , and knocked each other out cold '' , Shayne said good-humoredly .
cl05.139.2	quote	`` Why the two damned fools got all excited when they saw the bottle , and knocked each other out cold '' , said Shayne good-humoredly .
cl05.141.0	ref	Got no business over here on a stake-out anyway '' .
cl05.141.1	post-adj3	Got no business on a stake-out over here anyway '' .
cl05.141.2	post-adj3	Got no business anyway on a stake-out over here '' .
cl05.141.3	post-adj3	Got no business over here anyway on a stake-out '' .
cl05.141.4	post-adj3	Got no business , anyway , over here on a stake-out '' .
cl05.141.5	post-adj3	Got no business on a stake-out anyway over here '' .
cl06.3.0	ref	He looked down over the banister at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set .
cl06.3.1	post-adj3	He looked over the banister down at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set .
cl06.3.2	post-adj3	He looked at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set over the banister down .
cl06.3.3	post-adj3	He looked down at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set over the banister .
cl06.3.4	post-adj3	He looked at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set down over the banister .
cl06.3.5	post-adj3	He looked over the banister at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set down .
cl06.4.0	ref	If I could call in , they could check the story while we were on our way .
cl06.4.1	post-adv	If I could call in , they while we were on our way could check the story .
cl06.4.2	pre-adv	They could check the story while we were on our way , if I could call in .
cl06.6.0	ref	He glanced up in time to see Roberts hurtling down on him from above , literally flying through the air , his bloody face twisted .
cl06.6.1	post-adj2	He glanced in time to see Roberts hurtling down on him from above , literally flying through the air , his bloody face twisted up .
cl06.9.0	ref	He tumbled with Roberts , helpless and in agony , over and over , down the steps .
cl06.9.1	post-adj3	He tumbled over and over , helpless and in agony , with Roberts , down the steps .
cl06.9.2	post-adj3	He tumbled down the steps , helpless and in agony , over and over , with Roberts .
cl06.9.3	post-adj3	He tumbled with Roberts , helpless and in agony , down the steps , over and over .
cl06.9.4	post-adj3	He tumbled , down the steps , with Roberts , helpless and in agony , over and over .
cl06.9.5	post-adj3	He tumbled helpless and in agony , over and over , down the steps , with Roberts .
cl06.12.0	ref	When his vision cleared he saw the taller one scrambling upward , reaching .
cl06.12.1	pre-adv	He saw the taller one scrambling upward , reaching when his vision cleared .
cl06.13.0	ref	Mickey was on his knees when Roberts turned on the stairs and the razor flashed in his hand .
cl06.13.1	post-adv	When Roberts turned on the stairs and the razor flashed in his hand Mickey was on his knees .
cl06.17.0	ref	The knifelike pain in his groin nearly brought him down again .
cl06.17.1	post-adj2	The knifelike pain in his groin nearly brought him again down .
cl06.19.0	ref	The pain dulled as he moved , and he steadied inside .
cl06.19.1	post-adv	As he moved the pain dulled , and he steadied inside .
cl06.23.0	ref	Roberts brushed at his eyes with his free hand and started down the steps .
cl06.23.1	post-adj2	Roberts brushed with his free hand at his eyes and started down the steps .
cl06.25.0	ref	He was invulnerable to attack , but he could be handled , Mickey knew , if he could be brought to make the first move .
cl06.25.1	post-adv	He was invulnerable to attack , but he could if he could be brought to make the first move be handled , Mickey knew .
cl06.26.0	ref	They were eight feet apart when Roberts cleared the last step .
cl06.26.1	post-adv	When Roberts cleared the last step they were eight feet apart .
cl06.29.0	ref	`` Or would it be easier if I put my hands in my pockets '' ?
cl06.29.1	post-adv	If I put my hands in my pockets `` or would it be easier '' ?
cl06.32.0	ref	He was just short of arm 's reach when he stopped .
cl06.32.1	post-adv	When he stopped he was just short of arm 's reach .
cl06.35.0	ref	Mickey backed off again and Roberts hesitated , then came along .
cl06.35.1	post-adj2	Mickey backed again off and Roberts hesitated , then came along .
cl06.38.0	ref	This was going to be it now , any second , and what he had to remember was to keep his eye on the razor , no matter what , even if Roberts should feint with a kick to the groin , the deadly hand was his exclusive concern .
cl06.38.1	post-adv	This was going to be it now , any second , and what he had to remember was , even if Roberts should feint with a kick to the groin , to keep his eye on the razor , no matter what , the deadly hand was his exclusive concern .
cl06.38.2	post-adj2	This was going to be it any second , now , and what he had to remember was to keep his eye on the razor , no matter what , even if Roberts should feint with a kick to the groin , the deadly hand was his exclusive concern .
cl06.43.0	ref	Before Roberts could move inside to cut upward toward his face , he slammed his right fist into Roberts ' belly .
cl06.43.1	pre-adv	He slammed his right fist into Roberts ' belly , before Roberts could move inside to cut upward toward his face .
cl06.44.0	ref	Roberts sagged and slashed at him wildly .
cl06.44.1	post-adj2	Roberts sagged and slashed wildly at him .
cl06.49.0	ref	They were in the center of the lobby now .
cl06.49.1	post-adj2	They were now in the center of the lobby .
cl06.51.0	ref	When he charged Mickey was ready .
cl06.51.1	pre-adv	Mickey was ready when he charged .
cl06.52.0	ref	He hit Roberts with his left fist in the ribs and the razor cut toward him feebly , then wobbled in mid-air .
cl06.52.1	post-adj2	He hit Roberts in the ribs with his left fist and the razor cut toward him feebly , then wobbled in mid-air .
cl06.53.0	ref	With his right fist , and nearly all his weight behind it , he smashed at the bloodstained face .
cl06.53.1	pre-adv	He smashed at the bloodstained face , with his right fist , and nearly all his weight behind it .
cl06.56.0	ref	He fell on his side across the lowest step , rolled over once , then lay still .
cl06.56.1	post-adj2	He fell across the lowest step on his side , rolled over once , then lay still .
cl06.57.0	ref	Mickey found himself leaning against the desk , with stiff hands , panting for breath .
cl06.57.1	post-adj2	Mickey found himself leaning with stiff hands , against the desk , panting for breath .
cl06.63.0	ref	It seemed to him that a long time had passed before he decided what to do .
cl06.63.1	post-adv	It seemed to him that a long time before he decided what to do had passed .
cl06.65.0	ref	The local law here would hold me till they check clear back home , and maybe more than that .
cl06.65.1	post-adv	The local law here till they check clear back home , and maybe more than that would hold me .
cl06.68.0	ref	There 's no other way ; I 'll have to do it myself .
cl06.68.1	dat-np-np	There 's no other way ; I 'll have to do myself to it .
cl06.71.0	ref	One thing , he thought , nobody knows about it yet .
cl06.71.1	post-adj2	One thing , he thought , nobody knows yet about it .
cl06.77.0	ref	Walking away on impulse , he might logically leave behind what it was inconvenient to carry .
cl06.77.1	post-adj2	Walking on impulse away , he might logically leave behind what it was inconvenient to carry .
cl06.78.0	ref	When he had closed the suitcase he found a rag and moved about the room , wiping carefully everything he might have touched .
cl06.78.1	pre-adv	He found a rag and moved about the room , wiping carefully everything he might have touched when he had closed the suitcase .
cl06.79.0	ref	It took him nearly an hour .
cl06.79.1	dat-np-np	It took nearly an hour to him .
cl06.88.0	ref	He went into the hotel and searched till he found the razor .
cl06.88.1	post-adv	He till he found the razor went into the hotel and searched .
cl06.91.0	ref	Then he went back for Roberts .
cl06.91.1	post-adj2	Then he went for Roberts back .
cl06.93.0	ref	He got it onto his shoulder after some work and carried it outside and down to the Jeep .
cl06.93.1	post-adj2	He got it after some work onto his shoulder and carried it outside and down to the Jeep .
cl06.95.0	ref	He drove carefully in the direction of the brief tour they had taken earlier .
cl06.95.1	post-adj2	He drove in the direction of the brief tour they had taken earlier carefully .
cl06.97.0	ref	When he reached the dip in the woods , he saw that already the earlier ruts were barely discernible .
cl06.97.1	pre-adv	He saw that already the earlier ruts were barely discernible , when he reached the dip in the woods .
cl06.99.0	ref	He drove in low gear to the fork in the road and swung as close as possible to the entrance to the abandoned mine .
cl06.99.1	post-adj2	He drove to the fork in the road in low gear and swung as close as possible to the entrance to the abandoned mine .
cl06.100.0	ref	He parked facing it and left the headlights on , but when he started into the tunnel with the suitcase , he found the illumination extended no farther than half a dozen feet into the passage .
cl06.100.1	pre-adv	He parked facing it and left the headlights on , but he found the illumination extended no farther than half a dozen feet into the passage , when he started into the tunnel with the suitcase .
cl06.100.2	post-adj2	He parked facing it and left the headlights on , but when he started with the suitcase into the tunnel , he found the illumination extended no farther than half a dozen feet into the passage .
cl06.103.0	ref	When the dust settled , he went back to the Jeep and carefully worked Roberts ' body onto his shoulder .
cl06.103.1	pre-adv	He went back to the Jeep and carefully worked Roberts ' body onto his shoulder , when the dust settled .
cl06.103.2	post-adj2	When the dust settled , he went to the Jeep back and carefully worked Roberts ' body onto his shoulder .
cl06.109.0	ref	He stood looking down for a few seconds , then backed up two or three paces from the edge .
cl06.109.1	post-adj2	He stood looking for a few seconds down , then backed up two or three paces from the edge .
cl06.111.0	ref	He could feel himself falling in with it and being unable to get out .
cl06.111.1	post-adj2	He could feel himself falling with it in and being unable to get out .
cl06.117.0	ref	He was shaking with tension and it took him a couple of minutes to get his breath and settle down .
cl06.117.1	dat-np-np	He was shaking with tension and it took a couple of minutes to him to get his breath and settle down .
cl06.119.0	ref	It hung momentarily on the point of dropping off .
cl06.119.1	post-adj2	It hung on the point of dropping off momentarily .
cl06.120.0	ref	He gave it a strong push , heard it slide , then tumble dryly into the hole .
cl06.120.1	dat-np-np	He gave a strong push to it , heard it slide , then tumble dryly into the hole .
cl06.120.2	post-adj2	He gave it a strong push , heard it slide , then tumble into the hole dryly .
cl06.122.0	ref	The body lay in an awkward sprawl twelve or fifteen feet below the level of the tunnel floor .
cl06.122.1	post-adj2	The body lay twelve or fifteen feet below the level of the tunnel floor in an awkward sprawl .
cl06.125.0	ref	The external signs of his approach to it would be covered by the snow , probably by the next day .
cl06.125.1	post-adj2	The external signs of his approach to it would be covered probably by the next day , by the snow .
cl06.129.0	ref	He had started to back into the turn when he remembered the razor in his pocket .
cl06.129.1	post-adv	He when he remembered the razor in his pocket had started to back into the turn .
cl06.132.0	ref	He went back once more to the Jeep and started the short drive to the hotel .
cl06.132.1	post-adj3	He went once more back to the Jeep and started the short drive to the hotel .
cl06.132.2	post-adj3	He went to the Jeep once more back and started the short drive to the hotel .
cl06.132.3	post-adj3	He went back to the Jeep once more and started the short drive to the hotel .
cl06.132.4	post-adj3	He went to the Jeep back once more and started the short drive to the hotel .
cl06.132.5	post-adj3	He went once more to the Jeep back and started the short drive to the hotel .
cl07.4.0	ref	A woman named Lisa who tells nobody anything about herself .
cl07.4.1	dat-np-np	A woman named Lisa who tells anything about herself to nobody .
cl07.19.0	ref	If there was such a person , I 'm afraid she got away with it .
cl07.19.1	pre-adv	I 'm afraid she got away with it , if there was such a person .
cl07.22.0	ref	It 'll be a tedious job , but if you want to try it , the old newspaper files are in the basement here in the county supervisor 's office '' .
cl07.22.1	pre-adv	It 'll be a tedious job , but the old newspaper files are in the basement here in the county supervisor 's office , if you want to try it '' .
cl07.25.0	ref	Mrs. Calhoun has been society editor here for twenty-five years .
cl07.25.1	post-adj2	Mrs. Calhoun has been society editor for twenty-five years here .
cl07.29.0	ref	`` Once , when the editor was just out of the hospital from a gallstone operation , Mrs. Calhoun and the mother of the bride went out to his house and fought it out beside his bed .
cl07.29.1	pre-adv	`` Once Mrs. Calhoun and the mother of the bride went out to his house and fought it out beside his bed , when the editor was just out of the hospital from a gallstone operation .
cl07.34.0	ref	`` I wish you good luck , but please do n't dig up too tough a case for me this close to election .
cl07.34.1	dat-np-np	`` I wish good luck to you , but please do n't dig up too tough a case for me this close to election .
cl07.35.0	ref	If you find out anything , come on back here and we 'll get started on it '' .
cl07.35.1	pre-adv	Come on back here , if you find out anything , and we 'll get started on it '' .
cl07.35.2	post-adj2	If you find out anything , come back here on and we 'll get started on it '' .
cl07.36.0	ref	Tracking down Mrs. Calhoun was like trying to catch up with Paul Revere between Lexington and Concord .
cl07.36.1	post-adj2	Tracking down Mrs. Calhoun was like trying to catch up between Lexington and Concord with Paul Revere .
cl07.38.0	ref	The wearying trek stretched into the afternoon -- from newspaper plant to insurance office to her house and back to the newspaper , where he found her at five o'clock .
cl07.38.1	post-adj2	The wearying trek stretched from newspaper plant to insurance office to her house and back to the newspaper , where he found her at five o'clock -- into the afternoon .
cl07.39.0	ref	She was a large woman with a frizzled gray poodle cut and a pencil clamped like a bit between her teeth while she hunted and pecked on an old typewriter .
cl07.39.1	post-adv	She was a large woman with a frizzled gray poodle cut and while she hunted and pecked on an old typewriter a pencil clamped like a bit between her teeth .
cl07.39.2	post-adj2	She was a large woman with a frizzled gray poodle cut and a pencil clamped between her teeth like a bit while she hunted and pecked on an old typewriter .
cl07.45.0	ref	I remember her because she did n't want her picture in the paper .
cl07.45.1	post-adv	Because she did n't want her picture in the paper I remember her .
cl07.49.0	ref	I did n't see her till several days later at the wedding , and her face looked like it had never had a blemish on it .
cl07.49.1	post-adj2	I did n't see her at the wedding till several days later , and her face looked like it had never had a blemish on it .
cl07.50.0	ref	But , of course , you could n't see too well through the veil '' .
cl07.50.1	post-adj2	But , of course , you could n't see through the veil too well '' .
cl07.56.0	ref	`` I think they moved away shortly after they were married .
cl07.56.1	post-adv	`` I think shortly after they were married they moved away .
cl07.59.0	ref	We usually run a social note when somebody moves away '' .
cl07.59.1	post-adv	When somebody moves away we usually run a social note '' .
cl07.64.0	ref	He hurried across to the courthouse and caught the sheriff just as he was leaving .
cl07.64.1	post-adv	He just as he was leaving hurried across to the courthouse and caught the sheriff .
cl07.65.0	ref	`` Sounds like what you 're after '' , he said when Hank had finished .
cl07.65.1	post-adv	When Hank had finished `` sounds like what you 're after '' , he said .
cl07.65.2	quote	`` Sounds like what you 're after '' , said he when Hank had finished .
cl07.66.0	ref	`` Come on , let 's hurry down before they lock up for the day '' .
cl07.66.1	post-adv	`` Come on , before they lock up for the day let 's hurry down '' .
cl07.73.0	ref	It latches when you close it , so stay as long as you like '' .
cl07.73.1	post-adv	When you close it it latches , so stay as long as you like '' .
cl07.78.0	ref	Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners in here overnight sometimes when the old jail got too crowded .
cl07.78.1	post-adv	Before we built the new jail , we used when the old jail got too crowded to keep prisoners in here overnight sometimes .
cl07.78.2	pre-adv	We used to keep prisoners in here overnight sometimes when the old jail got too crowded , before we built the new jail .
cl07.78.3	post-adj3	Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners overnight in here sometimes when the old jail got too crowded .
cl07.78.4	post-adj3	Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners sometimes overnight in here when the old jail got too crowded .
cl07.78.5	post-adj3	Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners in here sometimes overnight when the old jail got too crowded .
cl07.78.6	post-adj3	Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners , sometimes , in here overnight when the old jail got too crowded .
cl07.78.7	post-adj3	Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners overnight sometimes in here when the old jail got too crowded .
cl07.81.0	ref	He walked past the sheriff into a windowless room with shelves full of big , leather-bound volumes from floor to ceiling all around the walls .
cl07.81.1	post-adj2	He walked into a windowless room with shelves full of big , leather-bound volumes from floor to ceiling all around the walls past the sheriff .
cl07.83.0	ref	`` They 're all here , back to 1865 '' , Carruthers told him .
cl07.83.1	quote	`` They 're all here , back to 1865 '' , told Carruthers him .
cl07.83.2	post-adj2	`` They 're all back to 1865 , here '' , Carruthers told him .
cl07.84.0	ref	`` It 's all right to smoke , but make sure your cigarettes are out before you leave .
cl07.84.1	post-adv	`` It 's all right to smoke , but before you leave make sure your cigarettes are out .
cl07.86.0	ref	`` I 'll leave the air conditioner on for you , Mr. Ferrell '' , said Hirey .
cl07.86.1	dat-np-np	`` I 'll leave Mr. Ferrell on for you , to the air conditioner '' , said Hirey .
cl07.86.2	iquote	`` I 'll leave the air conditioner on for you , Mr. Ferrell '' , Hirey said .
cl07.87.0	ref	`` Do n't forget to turn it off and close the door good so it 'll latch '' .
cl07.87.1	post-adv	`` Do n't forget to so it 'll latch turn it off and close the door good '' .
cl07.89.0	ref	When they had gone , he stood for a minute breathing in the mustiness of old paper and leather which the busily thrumming air conditioner could n't quite dispel .
cl07.89.1	pre-adv	He stood for a minute breathing in the mustiness of old paper and leather which the busily thrumming air conditioner could n't quite dispel , when they had gone .
cl07.93.0	ref	It was , indeed , all here -- almost a century .
cl07.93.1	post-adj2	It was , here , all indeed -- almost a century .
cl07.100.0	ref	Since Mrs. Calhoun remembered only that the marriage had been in the spring , he started to plod through several months .
cl07.100.1	pre-adv	He started to plod through several months , since Mrs. Calhoun remembered only that the marriage had been in the spring .
cl07.103.0	ref	It told him little more than Mrs. Calhoun had remembered , stating that it had been a small , modest wedding compared to some of the others .
cl07.103.1	dat-np-np	It told little more than Mrs. Calhoun had remembered to him , stating that it had been a small , modest wedding compared to some of the others .
cl07.109.0	ref	If Mrs. Black was who he thought she was , Mr. Black 's Peerless selling days might well be over .
cl07.109.1	pre-adv	Mr. Black 's Peerless selling days might well be over , if Mrs. Black was who he thought she was .
cl07.111.0	ref	This time the search took twice as long , cutting down on his extra reading , for he had to pick through several columns of one - and two-line social notes in each issue .
cl07.111.1	post-adv	For he had to pick through several columns of one - and two-line social notes in each issue , this time the search took twice as long , cutting down on his extra reading .
cl07.113.0	ref	The item said Mr. and Mrs. Black had moved to Jackson , his home town -- so the lovely Lisa had been with him a year ago .
cl07.113.1	post-adv	So the lovely Lisa had been with him a year ago -- the item said Mr. and Mrs. Black had moved to Jackson , his home town .
cl07.116.0	ref	For the next hour he scrambled happily up and down the ladder , sharing the excitement of reporters who had seen McKinley 's assassination , the Iroquois Theater fire in Chicago , and the Hall-Mills trial .
cl07.116.1	post-adj2	For the next hour he scrambled up and down the ladder happily , sharing the excitement of reporters who had seen McKinley 's assassination , the Iroquois Theater fire in Chicago , and the Hall-Mills trial .
cl07.123.0	ref	It clanged shut as he sprang toward it .
cl07.123.1	post-adv	As he sprang toward it it clanged shut .
cl07.131.0	ref	Unless he was stone-blind , the person who 'd just left could n't have missed seeing Hank through the open door of the brightly lighted room .
cl07.131.1	pre-adv	The person who 'd just left could n't have missed seeing Hank through the open door of the brightly lighted room , unless he was stone-blind .
cl07.132.0	ref	And even if he 'd somehow missed seeing him , he would n't have gone off and left the light on and door open in the file room .
cl07.132.1	pre-adv	And he would n't have gone off and left the light on and door open in the file room , even if he 'd somehow missed seeing him .
cl07.133.0	ref	Whoever it was had meant to shut him up in here , had followed him and waited till the courthouse and square were deserted .
cl07.133.1	post-adv	Whoever it was had meant to shut him up in here , had till the courthouse and square were deserted followed him and waited .
cl07.136.0	ref	To come back later and kill him after the stores had closed around the square and everybody had left ?
cl07.136.1	post-adv	To after the stores had closed around the square and everybody had left come back later and kill him ?
cl07.136.2	post-adj2	To come later back and kill him after the stores had closed around the square and everybody had left ?
cl07.137.0	ref	No , they could kill him just as easy right now .
cl07.137.1	post-adj2	No , they could kill him right now just as easy .
cl07.144.0	ref	They kept drifting apart and merging again in his mind like some minute form of life on a microscope slide .
cl07.144.1	post-adj2	They kept drifting apart and merging again like some minute form of life on a microscope slide in his mind .
cl08.8.0	ref	`` Time '' , said Angie , and he smiled very sweet and slow at Mr. Skyros .
cl08.8.1	post-adj2	`` Time '' , said Angie , and he smiled at Mr. Skyros very sweet and slow .
cl08.13.0	ref	Dear heaven , no , thought Mr. Skyros , turning away as another man came in .
cl08.13.1	post-adv	Dear heaven , no , thought Mr. Skyros , as another man came in turning away .
cl08.14.0	ref	He straightened his tie at the mirror with a shaking hand ; the genial smile seemed painted on his face .
cl08.14.1	post-adj2	He straightened his tie with a shaking hand at the mirror ; the genial smile seemed painted on his face .
cl08.21.0	ref	And ca n't say I blame you '' , said Angie thoughtfully .
cl08.21.1	iquote	And ca n't say I blame you '' , Angie said thoughtfully .
cl08.24.0	ref	Ace of spades -- a widow , that was what they called a widow , these low-class crooks remembered Mr. Skyros distractedly .
cl08.24.1	iquote	Ace of spades -- a widow , that was what they called a widow , these low-class crooks Mr. Skyros remembered distractedly .
cl08.26.0	ref	When things got a little out of hand , they very rapidly got a lot out of hand -- it seemed to be a general rule .
cl08.26.1	pre-adv	They very rapidly got a lot out of hand , when things got a little out of hand -- it seemed to be a general rule .
cl08.27.0	ref	All just by chance , and in a way tracing back to poor Frank , all of it , because naturally -- brothers , living together -- and Angie -- Mr. Skyros did not at all like the look on Angelo 's regular-featured , almost girlishly good-looking face -- or indeed anything about Angelo .
cl08.27.1	post-adv	All just by chance , and , because naturally -- brothers , living together -- and Angie , in a way tracing back to poor Frank , all of it -- Mr. Skyros did not at all like the look on Angelo 's regular-featured , almost girlishly good-looking face -- or indeed anything about Angelo .
cl08.27.2	post-adj2	All just by chance , and in a way tracing to poor Frank back , all of it , because naturally -- brothers , living together -- and Angie -- Mr. Skyros did not at all like the look on Angelo 's regular-featured , almost girlishly good-looking face -- or indeed anything about Angelo .
cl08.28.0	ref	Mr. Skyros was not a man who thought very much about moral principles ; he found money much more interesting ; but all the same he thought now , uneasily , of the way in which Angelo earned his living -- and paid for his own stuff -- and eyed the soft smile , and the spaniel-like dark eyes , and he felt a little ill .
cl08.28.1	post-adj2	Mr. Skyros was not a man who thought about moral principles very much ; he found money much more interesting ; but all the same he thought now , uneasily , of the way in which Angelo earned his living -- and paid for his own stuff -- and eyed the soft smile , and the spaniel-like dark eyes , and he felt a little ill .
cl08.30.0	ref	I stay in business so long because I 'm careful .
cl08.30.1	post-adv	Because I 'm careful I stay in business so long .
cl08.30.2	post-adj2	I stay so long in business because I 'm careful .
cl08.31.0	ref	Two weeks , a month , we talk it over again , and maybe if nothing happens meanwhile to say the cops know this and that , then we make a little deal , is n't it '' ?
cl08.31.1	pre-adv	Two weeks , a month , we talk it over again , and maybe then we make a little deal , if nothing happens meanwhile to say the cops know this and that , is n't it '' ?
cl08.32.0	ref	`` That 's a long while '' , said Angie .
cl08.32.1	iquote	`` That 's a long while '' , Angie said .
cl08.33.0	ref	`` I tell you , you want to leave it that way , I do n't fool around with it .
cl08.33.1	dat-np-np	`` I tell you , you want to leave that way to it , I do n't fool around with it .
cl08.33.2	post-adj2	`` I tell you , you want to leave it that way , I do n't fool with it around .
cl08.36.0	ref	And Mr. Skyros did n't like Angie , but what with Prettyman and three of his boys inside , and not likely to come out -- And Angie such a valuable salesman , Prettyman said -- All the nuisance and danger of getting in touch with practically a whole new bunch of boys -- Why did everything have to happen at once ?
cl08.36.1	quote	And Mr. Skyros did n't like Angie , but what with Prettyman and three of his boys inside , and not likely to come out -- And Angie such a valuable salesman , said Prettyman -- All the nuisance and danger of getting in touch with practically a whole new bunch of boys -- Why did everything have to happen at once ?
cl08.39.0	ref	Angelo gave him an affectionate smile .
cl08.39.1	dat-np-np	Angelo gave an affectionate smile to him .
cl08.49.0	ref	The sweat broke out on Mr. Skyros ' forehead as he realized he had been actually thinking -- hoping -- planning -- perhaps -- Good God above , had not Domokous been enough ?
cl08.49.1	post-adv	As he realized he had been actually thinking -- hoping -- planning -- perhaps -- the sweat broke out on Mr. Skyros ' forehead Good God above , had not Domokous been enough ?
cl08.51.0	ref	`` Now you do n't want to go talking that way '' , he said .
cl08.51.1	quote	`` Now you do n't want to go talking that way '' , said he .
cl08.59.0	ref	`` Well , that 's your business , Mr. Skyros '' , said Angie , and his dreamy eyes moved past Mr. Skyros ' shoulder to gaze vaguely out the ground-glass window .
cl08.59.1	iquote	`` Well , that 's your business , Mr. Skyros '' , Angie said , and his dreamy eyes moved past Mr. Skyros ' shoulder to gaze vaguely out the ground-glass window .
cl08.67.0	ref	`` Oh , now , I do n't know about that much '' , said Mr. Skyros .
cl08.67.1	iquote	`` Oh , now , I do n't know about that much '' , Mr. Skyros said .
cl08.68.0	ref	`` And you know , Angelo , Pretty , he always keeps it a strict cash basis , like they say ''
cl08.68.1	post-adv	`` And , like they say , you know , Angelo , Pretty , he always keeps it a strict cash basis ''
cl08.73.0	ref	I bring you the cash , say five hundred for ten decks .
cl08.73.1	dat-np-np	I bring the cash , say five hundred for ten decks to you .
cl08.77.0	ref	`` I do my best '' , said Mr. Skyros earnestly , `` just for you , my friend .
cl08.77.1	dat-np-np	`` I do my friend '' , said Mr. Skyros earnestly , `` just for you , to my best .
cl08.78.0	ref	This is awkward for everybody , is n't it , we all got to put up with inconvenience sometimes .
cl08.78.1	post-adj2	This is awkward for everybody , is n't it , we all got to put up sometimes with inconvenience .
cl08.80.0	ref	He got out of there in a hurry , brushing past another man in the door , mopping his brow .
cl08.80.1	post-adj2	He got in a hurry out of there , brushing past another man in the door , mopping his brow .
cl08.81.0	ref	The expedient thing -- yes , very true , one must make do as one could , in some situations .
cl08.81.1	post-adv	The expedient thing -- yes , very true , one , as one could , must make do in some situations .
cl08.88.0	ref	Katya Roslev , who would be Katharine Ross so very soon now , rang up her first sale of the day and counted back the change .
cl08.88.1	post-adj2	Katya Roslev , who would be Katharine Ross now so very soon , rang up her first sale of the day and counted back the change .
cl08.89.0	ref	She did not notice that the customer seized her purchase and turned away without a smile or a word of thanks .
cl08.89.1	post-adj2	She did not notice that the customer seized her purchase and turned without a smile or a word of thanks away .
cl08.90.0	ref	Usually she marked the few who did thank you , you did n't get that kind much in a place like this : and she played a little game with herself , seeing how downright rude she could act to the others , before they 'd take offense , threaten to call the manager .
cl08.90.1	post-adv	Usually she marked the few who did thank you , you did n't get that kind much in a place like this : and she played a little game with herself , seeing how downright rude she , before they 'd take offense , threaten to call the manager , could act to the others .
cl08.90.2	post-adj2	Usually she marked the few who did thank you , you did n't get that kind in a place like this much : and she played a little game with herself , seeing how downright rude she could act to the others , before they 'd take offense , threaten to call the manager .
cl08.91.0	ref	Funny how seldom they did : used to it , probably .
cl08.91.1	post-adj2	Funny how seldom they did : used probably , to it .
cl08.94.0	ref	And , Here , I 'll take this , I was before her , you wait on me now or I do n't bother with it , see !
cl08.94.1	post-adj2	And , Here , I 'll take this , I was before her , you wait now on me or I do n't bother with it , see !
cl08.99.0	ref	She 'd be smart about it , get him to give it to her in little bills so 's nobody would suspect -- maybe could n't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that was n't really long to wait .
cl08.99.1	post-adv	She 'd so 's nobody would suspect be smart about it , get him to give it to her in little bills -- maybe could n't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that was n't really long to wait .
cl08.99.2	post-adj2	She 'd be smart about it , get him to give it in little bills to her so 's nobody would suspect -- maybe could n't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that was n't really long to wait .
cl08.99.3	dat-np-pp	She 'd be smart about it , get him to give her it in little bills so 's nobody would suspect -- maybe could n't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that was n't really long to wait .
cl08.100.0	ref	Not when she 'd waited so long already .
cl08.100.1	post-adj2	Not when she 'd waited already so long .
cl08.103.0	ref	She 'd say she did n't feel good on Sunday , could n't go to church -- there 'd be a little argument , but she could be stubborn -- and when the old woman had gone , quick pack the things she 'd need to take , all but the dress she 'd wear Monday , and take the bag down to that place in the station where you could put things in a locker overnight , for a dime .
cl08.103.1	post-adv	She 'd , when the old woman had gone , say she did n't feel good on Sunday , could n't go to church -- there 'd be a little argument , but she could be stubborn -- and quick pack the things she 'd need to take , all but the dress she 'd wear Monday , and take the bag down to that place in the station where you could put things in a locker overnight , for a dime .
cl08.106.0	ref	No need leave a note with it , either -- or maybe just something like , Do n't worry about me , I 'm going away to make a better life .
cl08.106.1	post-adj2	No need leave a note either , with it -- or maybe just something like , Do n't worry about me , I 'm going away to make a better life .
cl08.110.0	ref	She did n't mind working hard , not as if she figured to do anything wrong to live easy and soft -- all she wanted was a chance , where she was n't marked as what she was .
cl08.110.1	post-adv	She as if she figured to do anything wrong to live easy and soft did n't mind working hard , not -- all she wanted was a chance , where she was n't marked as what she was .
cl08.113.0	ref	Prettier , she 'd do her hair another way ; smarter , and wear different kinds of clothes -- she 'd be Katharine Ross , just what that sounded like .
cl08.113.1	dat-np-np	Prettier , she 'd do another way ; smarter to her hair , and wear different kinds of clothes -- she 'd be Katharine Ross , just what that sounded like .
cl08.114.0	ref	`` You 've give me the wrong change '' , said the customer sharply .
cl08.114.1	dat-np-np	`` You 've give the wrong change to me '' , said the customer sharply .
cl08.114.2	iquote	`` You 've give me the wrong change '' , the customer said sharply .
cl08.125.0	ref	After he 'd got out fresh liver for Bast , he paused to look at her crouched daintily over her dish .
cl08.125.1	pre-adv	He paused to look at her crouched daintily over her dish , after he 'd got out fresh liver for Bast .
cl08.131.0	ref	`` A lot of people are so peculiar that they do n't like cats , it 's not the easiest thing in the world to find good homes for kittens -- and , damn it , you know very well if I have them around long , impossible to give them away !
cl08.131.1	pre-adv	`` A lot of people are so peculiar that they do n't like cats , it 's not the easiest thing in the world to find good homes for kittens -- and , damn it , you know very well impossible to give them away if I have them around long !
cl08.133.0	ref	Yes , well , it 's a pity to spoil your girlish figure -- which all those kittens would do anyway -- but I think when you 've raised these we 'll just have the vet fix it so there wo n't be any more .
cl08.133.1	pre-adv	Yes , well , it 's a pity to spoil your girlish figure -- which all those kittens would do anyway -- but I think we 'll just have the vet fix it so there wo n't be any more when you 've raised these .
cl08.135.0	ref	And it 's no good looking at me like that '' , as she wound affectionately around his ankles .
cl08.135.1	post-adv	As she wound affectionately around his ankles , and it 's no good looking at me like that '' .
cl08.135.2	post-adj2	And it 's no good looking like that at me '' , as she wound affectionately around his ankles .
cl09.6.0	ref	But she was talking of Emile when she saw the black line of the open door ; Sarah remembered it clearly .
cl09.6.1	post-adv	But she when she saw the black line of the open door was talking of Emile ; Sarah remembered it clearly .
cl09.9.0	ref	Miss Celie 's taken to her bed , with the door locked .
cl09.9.1	post-adv	Miss Celie , with the door locked , 's taken to her bed .
cl09.16.0	ref	`` I do n't want it '' , Sarah said , firmly .
cl09.16.1	quote	`` I do n't want it '' , said Sarah , firmly .
cl09.18.0	ref	Well -- I 'll take it down with me as I go '' .
cl09.18.1	post-adv	Well -- I as I go 'll take it down with me '' .
cl09.18.2	post-adj2	Well -- I 'll take it with me down as I go '' .
cl09.23.0	ref	It 's just like that book your Northern friend wrote -- except there are n't any ice floes to cross and no bloodhounds '' .
cl09.23.1	post-adv	Except there are n't any ice floes to cross and no bloodhounds -- it 's just like that book your Northern friend wrote '' .
cl09.25.0	ref	What can they do if they find them '' ?
cl09.25.1	post-adv	What if they find them can they do '' ?
cl09.27.0	ref	It 's silly , childish , running after them like that .
cl09.27.1	post-adj2	It 's silly , childish , running like that after them .
cl09.29.0	ref	But of course the paterollers wo n't be of any help , not with everything so upset and that Yankee cavalry outfit they say is running around , God knows where '' .
cl09.29.1	post-adv	But of course the paterollers with everything so upset and that Yankee cavalry outfit they say is running around , God knows where wo n't be of any help , not '' .
cl09.30.0	ref	She had swished away , she had been gone for a long time probably when Sarah suddenly realized that she ought to stop her , pour out the coffee , so no one would drink it .
cl09.30.1	post-adv	She had swished away , she had been gone for a long time probably when Sarah suddenly realized that she ought to , so no one would drink it , stop her , pour out the coffee .
cl09.33.0	ref	She had quarreled with Lucien , she had resisted his demands for money -- and if she died , by the provisions of her marriage contract , Lucien would inherit legally not only the immediate sum of gold under the floorboards in the office , but later , when the war was over , her father 's entire estate .
cl09.33.1	post-adv	She had quarreled with Lucien , she had resisted his demands for money -- and if she died , by the provisions of her marriage contract , Lucien , when the war was over , would inherit legally not only the immediate sum of gold under the floorboards in the office , but later her father 's entire estate .
cl09.33.2	pre-adv	She had quarreled with Lucien , she had resisted his demands for money -- and by the provisions of her marriage contract , Lucien would inherit legally not only the immediate sum of gold under the floorboards in the office , but later , when the war was over , her father 's entire estate , if she died .
cl09.38.0	ref	Yes , she had missed it after her talk with Emile , after dinner , just before Emile was shot .
cl09.38.1	post-adv	Yes , she , just before Emile was shot , had missed it after her talk with Emile , after dinner .
cl09.38.2	post-adj2	Yes , she had missed it after dinner , after her talk with Emile , just before Emile was shot .
cl09.39.0	ref	Rilly or Glendora had entered her room while she slept , bringing back her washed clothes .
cl09.39.1	post-adv	Rilly or Glendora , while she slept , had entered her room bringing back her washed clothes .
cl09.40.0	ref	So somebody else could have come in , too -- then or later while she was out of the room .
cl09.40.1	post-adj3	So somebody else could have come too , in -- then or later while she was out of the room .
cl09.40.2	post-adj3	So somebody else could have come then or later while she was out of the room , too -- in .
cl09.40.3	post-adj3	So somebody else could have come in , then or later while she was out of the room -- too .
cl09.40.4	post-adj3	So somebody else could have come -- then or later while she was out of the room -- in , too .
cl09.40.5	post-adj3	So somebody else could have come too -- then or later while she was out of the room , in .
cl09.41.0	ref	It would have been easy to identify as opium by its odor .
cl09.41.1	post-adj2	It would have been easy to identify by its odor as opium .
cl09.42.0	ref	It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come back to Honotassa with a formed plan to murder her .
cl09.42.1	post-adj3	It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come to Honotassa back with a formed plan to murder her .
cl09.42.2	post-adj3	It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come with a formed plan to murder her to Honotassa back .
cl09.42.3	post-adj3	It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come back with a formed plan to murder her to Honotassa .
cl09.42.4	post-adj3	It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come with a formed plan to murder her back to Honotassa .
cl09.42.5	post-adj3	It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come to Honotassa with a formed plan to murder her back .
cl09.54.0	ref	So suppose somebody only wished to frighten her , so she would leave Honotassa !
cl09.54.1	post-adv	So suppose somebody only wished , so she would leave Honotassa , to frighten her !
cl09.56.0	ref	Added to the argument was the fact that while she might have tasted the coffee if it had been still hot , she might even have drunk some of it , she would n't have taken enough to kill her , for she would have been warned by its taste .
cl09.56.1	pre-adv	Added to the argument was the fact that if it had been still hot while she might have tasted the coffee , she might even have drunk some of it , she would n't have taken enough to kill her , for she would have been warned by its taste .
cl09.56.2	pre-adv	Added to the argument was the fact that while she might have tasted the coffee she might even have drunk some of it , if it had been still hot , she would n't have taken enough to kill her , for she would have been warned by its taste .
cl09.59.0	ref	She would n't go back to New York as Maude suggested ; she would n't run like a scared cat .
cl09.59.1	post-adv	She as Maude suggested would n't go back to New York ; she would n't run like a scared cat .
cl09.59.2	post-adj2	She would n't go to New York back as Maude suggested ; she would n't run like a scared cat .
cl09.62.0	ref	But before she left her room she dug into her big moire bag , took out the envelope holding her marriage contract and the wax seal had been broken .
cl09.62.1	pre-adv	But she dug into her big moire bag , took out the envelope holding her marriage contract before she left her room and the wax seal had been broken .
cl09.63.0	ref	So somebody else knew what would happen to her father 's money if she died .
cl09.63.1	post-adv	So somebody else knew what if she died would happen to her father 's money .
cl09.67.0	ref	Rev would never have tried to give her poison !
cl09.67.1	dat-np-np	Rev would never have tried to give poison to her !
cl09.68.0	ref	She thrust the envelope back in the bag ; there was no point in locking it up in the armoire now , it was like locking the barn after the horse was stolen .
cl09.68.1	post-adv	She thrust the envelope back in the bag ; there was no point in locking it up in the armoire now , it was like after the horse was stolen locking the barn .
cl09.68.2	post-adj2	She thrust the envelope in the bag back ; there was no point in locking it up in the armoire now , it was like locking the barn after the horse was stolen .
cl09.69.0	ref	And in all likelihood , by now , there was more than one person in the house who knew the terms of her marriage contract .
cl09.69.1	pre-adj2	And by now , in all likelihood , there was more than one person in the house who knew the terms of her marriage contract .
cl09.70.0	ref	There was no point either in telling herself again what a fool she 'd been .
cl09.70.1	post-adj2	There was no point in telling herself again what a fool she 'd been either .
cl09.71.0	ref	She went downstairs and received another curious shock , for when Glendora flapped into the dining room in her homemade moccasins , Sarah asked her when she had brought coffee to her room and Glendora said she had n't .
cl09.71.1	pre-adv	She went downstairs and received another curious shock , for Sarah asked her when she had brought coffee to her room , when Glendora flapped into the dining room in her homemade moccasins , and Glendora said she had n't .
cl09.79.0	ref	`` We 've got to eat '' , Sarah said , curtly , because a chill crawled over her again .
cl09.79.1	post-adv	`` We 've got to eat '' , because a chill crawled over her again , Sarah said , curtly .
cl09.83.0	ref	She ate what she could and went out along the covered passageway , with the rain dripping from the vines .
cl09.83.1	post-adj2	She ate what she could and went along the covered passageway , with the rain dripping from the vines out .
cl09.87.0	ref	Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went with her through the drizzle , to the storehouse .
cl09.87.1	post-adj3	Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went through the drizzle with her , to the storehouse .
cl09.87.2	post-adj3	Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went to the storehouse through the drizzle , with her .
cl09.87.3	post-adj3	Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went with her to the storehouse , through the drizzle .
cl09.87.4	post-adj3	Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went , to the storehouse , with her through the drizzle .
cl09.87.5	post-adj3	Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went through the drizzle , to the storehouse with her .
cl09.92.0	ref	The shelves looked emptier than when Miss Celie had shown her the storeroom , and since the men from the Commissary had called ; there were certainly now fewer mouths to feed but there was less to feed them with .
cl09.92.1	dat-np-np	The shelves looked emptier than when Miss Celie had shown the storeroom to her , and since the men from the Commissary had called ; there were certainly now fewer mouths to feed but there was less to feed them with .
cl09.92.2	post-adj2	The shelves looked emptier than when Miss Celie had shown her the storeroom , and since the men from the Commissary had called ; there were now certainly fewer mouths to feed but there was less to feed them with .
cl09.99.0	ref	She sent Glendora back to the house , her basket and her apron laden .
cl09.99.1	post-adj2	She sent Glendora to the house back , her basket and her apron laden .
cl09.108.0	ref	Maude could have shot Emile -- if she 'd had a reason to kill him .
cl09.108.1	post-adv	Maude could -- if she 'd had a reason to kill him -- have shot Emile .
cl09.110.0	ref	She started back for the house , saw a light in the office , opened the door and surprised a domestic little scene which was far outside the dark realm of murder or attempted murder .
cl09.110.1	post-adj2	She started for the house back , saw a light in the office , opened the door and surprised a domestic little scene which was far outside the dark realm of murder or attempted murder .
cl09.112.0	ref	A lighted lamp stood on the table that dusky , drizzling day .
cl09.112.1	post-adj2	A lighted lamp stood that dusky , drizzling day on the table .
cl09.115.0	ref	George said , `` First thing I do when I get to Vicksburg again , is get me a Yankee '' -- `` With boots on '' , Lolotte laughed softly .
cl09.115.1	dat-np-np	George said , `` First thing I do when I get to Vicksburg again , is get a Yankee '' -- `` With boots on to me '' , Lolotte laughed softly .
cl09.115.2	post-adv	George said , `` First thing when I get to Vicksburg again I do , is get me a Yankee '' -- `` With boots on '' , Lolotte laughed softly .
cl09.115.3	post-adj2	George said , `` First thing I do when I get again to Vicksburg , is get me a Yankee '' -- `` With boots on '' , Lolotte laughed softly .
cl09.125.0	ref	`` Take your cobbler 's shop somewhere else .
cl09.125.1	dat-np-np	`` Take somewhere else to your cobbler 's shop .
cl09.135.0	ref	She thought as warm , drizzling rain touched her face .
cl09.135.1	post-adv	As warm , drizzling rain touched her face she thought .
cl09.137.0	ref	As she reached the kitchen door the answer presented itself ; if she told anyone of the opium it must be Lucien , her husband .
cl09.137.1	pre-adv	The answer presented itself , as she reached the kitchen door ; if she told anyone of the opium it must be Lucien , her husband .
cl09.137.2	pre-adv	As she reached the kitchen door the answer presented itself ; it must be Lucien , her husband if she told anyone of the opium .
cl09.146.0	ref	The homely everyday details of living and domestic requirements also pressed upon her with their immediate urgency .
cl09.146.1	post-adj2	The homely everyday details of living and domestic requirements also pressed with their immediate urgency upon her .
cl09.148.0	ref	She eyed the chickens with , if she had known it , something of Glendora 's dismal look and thought with a certain fury of the time she had spent on Latin verbs .
cl09.148.1	post-adv	She , if she had known it , eyed the chickens with something of Glendora 's dismal look and thought with a certain fury of the time she had spent on Latin verbs .
cl10.4.0	ref	Speak to him again anyway .
cl10.4.1	post-adj3	Speak again to him anyway .
cl10.4.2	post-adj3	Speak anyway again to him .
cl10.4.3	post-adj3	Speak to him anyway again .
cl10.4.4	post-adj3	Speak anyway to him again .
cl10.4.5	post-adj3	Speak again anyway to him .
cl10.8.0	ref	She might have been talking to some of her friends about her husband if they 've been having any trouble '' .
cl10.8.1	post-adv	She might have if they 've been having any trouble been talking to some of her friends about her husband '' .
cl10.8.2	post-adj2	She might have been talking about her husband to some of her friends if they 've been having any trouble '' .
cl10.11.0	ref	I think he might be '' , Conrad said grimly .
cl10.11.1	quote	I think he might be '' , said Conrad grimly .
cl10.16.0	ref	`` Will you be coming back soon '' ?
cl10.16.1	post-adj2	`` Will you be coming soon back '' ?
cl10.32.0	ref	I 'm telling you , if these corpses ever knew the trouble they put us to , they 'd think twice before letting themselves get knocked off '' .
cl10.32.1	pre-adv	I 'm telling you , they 'd think twice before letting themselves get knocked off , if these corpses ever knew the trouble they put us to '' .
cl10.37.0	ref	He wondered how long it would be before they had a signed confession from Lionel Black .
cl10.37.1	post-adv	He wondered how long it before they had a signed confession from Lionel Black would be .
cl10.43.0	ref	He stopped automatically at the street corners , waiting for the traffic lights to change , unheeding of other people , his coat open and flapping .
cl10.43.1	post-adj2	He stopped at the street corners automatically , waiting for the traffic lights to change , unheeding of other people , his coat open and flapping .
cl10.44.0	ref	As he walked , he tried to think .
cl10.44.1	pre-adv	He tried to think , as he walked .
cl10.51.0	ref	Conrad 's words had intellectual meaning for him only .
cl10.51.1	post-adj2	Conrad 's words had intellectual meaning only for him .
cl10.56.0	ref	He knew Conrad had told him the truth .
cl10.56.1	dat-np-np	He knew Conrad had told the truth to him .
cl10.59.0	ref	It was n't so because it could n't be so .
cl10.59.1	post-adv	Because it could n't be so it was n't so .
cl10.60.0	ref	When Kitti was alive -- and he remembered the pressure of her hand resting lightly on his arm -- she had been the center of his life .
cl10.60.1	pre-adv	And he remembered the pressure of her hand resting lightly on his arm -- she had been the center of his life when Kitti was alive .
cl10.60.2	post-adj2	When Kitti was alive -- and he remembered the pressure of her hand resting on his arm lightly -- she had been the center of his life .
cl10.62.0	ref	For fifty-five years he had lived , progressing towards a no-goal , eating , working , breathing without plan , without reason .
cl10.62.1	post-adj2	For fifty-five years he had lived , progressing towards a no-goal , eating , working , breathing without reason , without plan .
cl10.66.0	ref	Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , not once , not for one one-thousandth of a second , of her infidelity .
cl10.66.1	pre-adj2	In the time that he had known her , not once , had he ever considered the possibility , not once , not for one one-thousandth of a second , of her infidelity .
cl10.66.2	post-adj3	Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , not for one one-thousandth of a second , not once , of her infidelity .
cl10.66.3	post-adj3	Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , of her infidelity , not for one one-thousandth of a second , not once .
cl10.66.4	post-adj3	Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , not once , of her infidelity , not for one one-thousandth of a second .
cl10.66.5	post-adj3	Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , of her infidelity , not once , not for one one-thousandth of a second .
cl10.66.6	post-adj3	Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility not for one one-thousandth of a second , of her infidelity , not once .
cl10.70.0	ref	The walk ended , inevitably , right in front of his hotel building .
cl10.70.1	post-adj2	The walk ended , right in front of his hotel building , inevitably .
cl10.72.0	ref	He looked at Gilborn with undisguised curiosity .
cl10.72.1	post-adj2	He looked with undisguised curiosity at Gilborn .
cl10.73.0	ref	Gilborn passed by him without seeing him .
cl10.73.1	post-adj2	Gilborn passed without seeing him by him .
cl10.74.0	ref	He crossed the lobby and rode up in the elevator lost in his own thoughts .
cl10.74.1	post-adj2	He crossed the lobby and rode in the elevator up lost in his own thoughts .
cl10.76.0	ref	The police were no longer there .
cl10.76.1	post-adj2	The police were there no longer .
cl10.80.0	ref	At last , sitting there , in the familiar surroundings , the truth began to sink in .
cl10.80.1	post-adj2	At last , sitting in the familiar surroundings , there , the truth began to sink in .
cl10.87.0	ref	Where there is a left-hand entry in the ledger , there is a right-hand one , he remembered from his school days .
cl10.87.1	quote	Where there is a left-hand entry in the ledger , there is a right-hand one , remembered he from his school days .
cl10.87.2	pre-adv	There is a right-hand one , where there is a left-hand entry in the ledger , he remembered from his school days .
cl10.88.0	ref	Where there is a victim , there is a killer .
cl10.88.1	pre-adv	There is a killer , where there is a victim .
cl10.94.0	ref	Gilborn stood there for a long time .
cl10.94.1	post-adj2	Gilborn stood for a long time there .
cl10.95.0	ref	He looked at the bed unblinkingly .
cl10.95.1	post-adj2	He looked unblinkingly at the bed .
cl10.97.0	ref	Kitti would lie in it no more .
cl10.97.1	post-adj2	Kitti would lie no more in it .
cl10.98.0	ref	He would lie in it no more .
cl10.98.1	post-adj2	He would lie no more in it .
cl10.99.0	ref	Gilborn wondered whether Kitti had lain in that same bed with Who ?
cl10.99.1	post-adj2	Gilborn wondered whether Kitti had lain with Who in that same bed ?
cl10.101.0	ref	At the end of the half-hour , racking his brains , thinking over and over again of Kitti , her friends , her past , he left the bedroom .
cl10.101.1	post-adj2	At the end of the half-hour , racking his brains , thinking of Kitti , her friends , her past over and over again , he left the bedroom .
cl10.111.0	ref	If anyone had asked her , she would have described herself only as nervous and worried .
cl10.111.1	pre-adv	She would have described herself only as nervous and worried , if anyone had asked her .
cl10.112.0	ref	The figures on the worksheet paper in front of her were jumping and waving around so badly it was all she could do to make them out clearly enough to copy them with the typewriter .
cl10.112.1	post-adj2	The figures on the worksheet paper in front of her were jumping and waving so badly it was all she could do to make them out clearly enough to copy them with the typewriter around .
cl10.114.0	ref	She wanted to be with him , to give him the comfort and companionship she knew he needed .
cl10.114.1	dat-np-np	She wanted to be with him , to give the comfort and companionship she knew he needed to him .
cl10.115.0	ref	She had skipped her lunch hour in the fear that he might call while she was out .
cl10.115.1	post-adv	She had skipped her lunch hour in the fear that he while she was out might call .
cl10.127.0	ref	She had invited him in for coffee .
cl10.127.1	post-adj2	She had invited him for coffee in .
cl10.128.0	ref	It was in the kitchen , as she was watching the kettle , waiting for the water to boil , that he had grabbed for her .
cl10.128.1	post-adv	As she was watching the kettle , waiting for the water to boil , it was in the kitchen , that he had grabbed for her .
cl10.129.0	ref	Without warning , without giving her a chance to prepare for it .
cl10.129.1	dat-np-np	Without warning , without giving a chance to prepare for it to her .
cl10.133.0	ref	When he left , she knew she would never see him again .
cl10.133.1	pre-adv	She knew she would never see him again , when he left .
cl10.135.0	ref	She could always predict what Stanley was going to do , ever since she first met him .
cl10.135.1	post-adv	She , ever since she first met him , could always predict what Stanley was going to do .
cl10.146.0	ref	For Blanche , it was only a matter of time before Stanley would propose .
cl10.146.1	post-adv	Before Stanley would propose for Blanche , it was only a matter of time .
cl10.148.0	ref	Stanley went along in life , she knew , convinced that he deserved the love and faith of no woman .
cl10.148.1	post-adj2	Stanley went in life along , she knew , convinced that he deserved the love and faith of no woman .
cl10.150.0	ref	But one day , she expected , he would somehow discover , without her having to tell him , that there was such a woman in the world ; a woman who was willing to give him love , faith , and anything else a woman could give a husband .
cl10.150.1	dat-np-np	But one day , she expected , he would somehow discover , without her having to tell him , that there was such a woman in the world ; a woman who was willing to give love , faith , and anything else a woman could give a husband to him .
cl10.151.0	ref	Indeed , there was a woman who , unasked , had already given him love .
cl10.151.1	dat-np-np	Indeed , there was a woman who , unasked , had already given love to him .
cl10.153.0	ref	And then , unexpectedly , Stanley made his announcement .
cl10.153.1	pre-adj2	And unexpectedly , then , Stanley made his announcement .
cl10.155.0	ref	It might have been easier for her if Kitti Walker had n't been everything that Blanche was not .
cl10.155.1	post-adv	It might if Kitti Walker had n't been everything that Blanche was not have been easier for her .
cl10.159.0	ref	Kitti had come into the office , on somebody 's recommendation , because she needed help in preparing her income tax return .
cl10.159.1	post-adj2	Kitti had come on somebody 's recommendation , into the office , because she needed help in preparing her income tax return .
cl10.160.0	ref	Stanley had filled out the return and because , when he was finished , it was close to the lunch hour , he had politely asked Kitti to join him , never expecting her to accept .
cl10.160.1	pre-adv	Stanley had filled out the return and he had politely asked Kitti to join him , never expecting her to accept , because , when he was finished , it was close to the lunch hour .
cl10.160.2	pre-adv	Stanley had filled out the return and because , it was close to the lunch hour , when he was finished , he had politely asked Kitti to join him , never expecting her to accept .
cl10.161.0	ref	Blanche knew all this because the door to Stanley 's office was open and , without straining too hard , she could hear everything that was said .
cl10.161.1	post-adv	Because the door to Stanley 's office was open Blanche knew all this and , without straining too hard , she could hear everything that was said .
cl10.163.0	ref	He had n't come back for over two .
cl10.163.1	post-adj2	He had n't come for over two back .
cl10.165.0	ref	There were mornings when Stanley came in late , afternoons when he left early , days when he did n't come in at all .
cl10.165.1	post-adj2	There were mornings when Stanley came late in , afternoons when he left early , days when he did n't come in at all .
cl10.168.0	ref	Then , six weeks after the day Kitti first came into the office , Stanley announced he and Kitti were married .
cl10.168.1	pre-adj2	Six weeks after the day Kitti first came into the office , then , Stanley announced he and Kitti were married .
cl10.171.0	ref	While they were away Blanche came into the office every morning , running things as she had always run them for Stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit .
cl10.171.1	post-adv	While they were away Blanche came into the office every morning , as she had always run them for Stanley running things , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit .
cl10.171.2	pre-adv	Blanche came into the office every morning , running things as she had always run them for Stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit while they were away .
cl10.171.3	post-adj2	While they were away Blanche came every morning into the office , running things as she had always run them for Stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit .
cl10.173.0	ref	On the morning of Stanley 's return , however , her strength left her .
cl10.173.1	pre-adj2	However , on the morning of Stanley 's return , her strength left her .
cl10.174.0	ref	Two hours of watching his serenely happy face , listening to his soft humming as he bent over his penciled figures , and Blanche had to leave .
cl10.174.1	post-adv	Two hours of as he bent over his penciled figures watching his serenely happy face , listening to his soft humming , and Blanche had to leave .
cl10.175.0	ref	She stayed away for ten days .
cl10.175.1	post-adj2	She stayed for ten days away .
cl11.2.0	ref	`` Also , if you 're going to believe those prints , you 'll have to look for a killer who 's a top-grade piano player '' .
cl11.2.1	pre-adv	`` Also you 'll have to look for a killer who 's a top-grade piano player , if you 're going to believe those prints '' .
cl11.6.0	ref	In the same way he pantomimed grasping a mantel and bouncing cleanly off that , pressing his hands against the floor and bouncing cleanly off that .
cl11.6.1	post-adj2	In the same way he pantomimed grasping a mantel and bouncing off that cleanly , pressing his hands against the floor and bouncing cleanly off that .
cl11.8.0	ref	If Rose Mallory 's killer acted this way , catching up with him was going to be a cinch .
cl11.8.1	pre-adv	Catching up with him was going to be a cinch , if Rose Mallory 's killer acted this way .
cl11.10.0	ref	Perhaps if Felix had first come upon us when this boy was not cavorting so gaily up and down the hall outside the murdered woman 's apartment , we might have had less trouble convincing Felix of our seriousness .
cl11.10.1	post-adv	Perhaps if Felix when this boy was not cavorting so gaily up and down the hall outside the murdered woman 's apartment had first come upon us , we might have had less trouble convincing Felix of our seriousness .
cl11.10.2	pre-adv	Perhaps we might have had less trouble convincing Felix of our seriousness , if Felix had first come upon us when this boy was not cavorting so gaily up and down the hall outside the murdered woman 's apartment .
cl11.15.0	ref	That , incidentally , might give you some idea of what Felix was like .
cl11.15.1	dat-np-np	That , incidentally , might give some idea of what Felix was like to you .
cl11.16.0	ref	After all , he had n't happened upon us in that second-floor hall without warning .
cl11.16.1	post-adj3	After all , he had n't happened in that second-floor hall upon us without warning .
cl11.16.2	post-adj3	After all , he had n't happened without warning in that second-floor hall upon us .
cl11.16.3	post-adj3	After all , he had n't happened upon us without warning in that second-floor hall .
cl11.16.4	post-adj3	After all , he had n't happened without warning upon us in that second-floor hall .
cl11.16.5	post-adj3	After all , he had n't happened in that second-floor hall without warning upon us .
cl11.18.0	ref	The meat wagon , therefore , was not out in front of the house any more , but the cluster of squad cars was still there and there was a cop on the door downstairs to screen any comings and goings .
cl11.18.1	post-adj2	The meat wagon , therefore , was not any more out in front of the house , but the cluster of squad cars was still there and there was a cop on the door downstairs to screen any comings and goings .
cl11.22.0	ref	You 've been away from home for the New Year festivities , but now the party is over and you come home .
cl11.22.1	post-adj2	You 've been for the New Year festivities away from home , but now the party is over and you come home .
cl11.33.0	ref	`` Got the upstairs guy '' , he bellows .
cl11.33.1	quote	`` Got the upstairs guy '' , bellows he .
cl11.36.0	ref	Then he turns back to you .
cl11.36.1	post-adj2	Then he turns to you back .
cl11.37.0	ref	`` Go on in '' , he says .
cl11.37.1	post-adj2	`` Go in on '' , he says .
cl11.42.0	ref	We were not , however , prepared for anything like the apparition that confronted us as Felix came up the stairs .
cl11.42.1	post-adv	We were not , however , prepared for anything like the apparition that as Felix came up the stairs confronted us .
cl11.44.0	ref	If Felix was still wearing the hat and carrying the horn because he 'd forgotten about them , he now remembered .
cl11.44.1	post-adv	If Felix because he 'd forgotten about them was still wearing the hat and carrying the horn , he now remembered .
cl11.44.2	pre-adv	He now remembered , if Felix was still wearing the hat and carrying the horn because he 'd forgotten about them .
cl11.46.0	ref	He adjusted the hat , lifted the horn to his lips as though it were a flute , and fell in alongside our fingerprint expert to cavort with him .
cl11.46.1	post-adv	He as though it were a flute adjusted the hat , lifted the horn to his lips , and fell in alongside our fingerprint expert to cavort with him .
cl11.51.0	ref	His face was ruddy and heavy and unlined , and when he laughed he showed his teeth , which were big and white and strong and unquestionably home-grown .
cl11.51.1	pre-adv	His face was ruddy and heavy and unlined , and he showed his teeth , which were big and white and strong and unquestionably home-grown , when he laughed .
cl11.61.0	ref	We waited till he had finished laughing , and that gave us a few moments for taking stock of him .
cl11.61.1	dat-np-np	We waited till he had finished laughing , and that gave a few moments for taking stock of him to us .
cl11.61.2	post-adv	Till he had finished laughing we waited , and that gave us a few moments for taking stock of him .
cl11.65.0	ref	He was freshly shaved , and if there had been any alcohol in him we could never have missed detecting some scent of it on the massive gusts of his laughter .
cl11.65.1	pre-adv	He was freshly shaved , and we could never have missed detecting some scent of it on the massive gusts of his laughter if there had been any alcohol in him .
cl11.71.0	ref	`` That much Latin we remember '' , Gibby said dryly .
cl11.71.1	quote	`` That much Latin we remember '' , said Gibby dryly .
cl11.72.0	ref	`` You always live up to your name , always like this , always making happy '' ?
cl11.72.1	post-adj2	`` You always live always like this , up to your name , always making happy '' ?
cl11.73.0	ref	`` I try '' , Felix said blithely .
cl11.73.1	quote	`` I try '' , said Felix blithely .
cl11.81.0	ref	`` The past I leave to historians '' , Felix intoned , demonstrating that he could be pompous as well as happy .
cl11.81.1	quote	`` The past I leave to historians '' , intoned , demonstrating Felix that he could be pompous as well as happy .
cl11.90.0	ref	Could your future , your immediate future , be made to include taking us upstairs , giving us a bit of space in which our friend can work , and making available to him your finger tips '' ?
cl11.90.1	dat-np-np	Could your future , your immediate future , be made to include taking us upstairs , giving a bit of space in which our friend can work to us , and making available to him your finger tips '' ?
cl11.100.0	ref	`` We 're here because of what happened last night '' , he said .
cl11.100.1	quote	`` We 're here because of what happened last night '' , said he .
cl11.100.2	post-adj2	`` We 're because of what happened last night here '' , he said .
cl11.102.0	ref	Since it is important , for the record let 's have the full name '' .
cl11.102.1	pre-adv	For the record let 's have the full name , since it is important '' .
cl11.121.0	ref	The cops would gather up Connor and the foursome on the third floor and bring us those of them who would voluntarily submit to fingerprinting .
cl11.121.1	dat-np-np	The cops would gather up Connor and the foursome on the third floor and bring those of them who would voluntarily submit to fingerprinting to us .
cl11.122.0	ref	You may think we did n't need Nancy and Jean , but you always get what you can when you can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them could n't be useful before we were through with this case .
cl11.122.1	post-adv	You may think we did n't need Nancy and Jean , but you always get what you when you can can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them could n't be useful before we were through with this case .
cl11.122.2	post-adv	You may think we did n't need Nancy and Jean , but you always get what you can when you can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them before we were through with this case could n't be useful .
cl11.123.0	ref	Also , if we had excluded the ladies we would have to that extent let the whole world know at least that much of where we stood .
cl11.123.1	pre-adv	Also we would have to that extent let the whole world know at least that much of where we stood , if we had excluded the ladies .
cl11.124.0	ref	The killer , if in our present group , would certainly be interested in knowing that much , and even though with the fingerprint evidence what it was I could see no way he could use this bit of information to improve on his situation , there might always be some way .
cl11.124.1	pre-adv	The killer , if in our present group , would certainly be interested in knowing that much , and there might always be some way , even though with the fingerprint evidence what it was I could see no way he could use this bit of information to improve on his situation .
cl11.124.2	pre-adv	The killer , if in our present group , would certainly be interested in knowing that much , and even though I could see no way he could use this bit of information to improve on his situation with the fingerprint evidence what it was , there might always be some way .
cl11.125.0	ref	If you can possibly avoid it , you do n't hand out any extra chances .
cl11.125.1	pre-adv	You do n't hand out any extra chances , if you can possibly avoid it .
cl11.129.0	ref	When Felix first opened the door on it , all these shades were tightly drawn and the whole studio was as dark as night .
cl11.129.1	pre-adv	All these shades were tightly drawn , when Felix first opened the door on it , and the whole studio was as dark as night .
cl11.134.0	ref	Starting with the room completely blacked out , as it was when we came in , he unerringly fixed things so that the whole place was bathed in the maximum of light without at any point admitting even so much as a crack of glare .
cl11.134.1	post-adv	Starting with , as it was when we came in , the room completely blacked out , he unerringly fixed things so that the whole place was bathed in the maximum of light without at any point admitting even so much as a crack of glare .
cl11.134.2	post-adv	Starting with the room completely blacked out , as it when we came in was , he unerringly fixed things so that the whole place was bathed in the maximum of light without at any point admitting even so much as a crack of glare .
cl11.134.3	post-adv	So that the whole place was bathed in the maximum of light without at any point admitting even so much as a crack of glare starting with the room completely blacked out , as it was when we came in , he unerringly fixed things .
cl12.3.0	ref	He finally fell asleep around six in the morning with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used , and did n't awaken until early afternoon .
cl12.3.1	post-adj3	He finally fell around six in the morning asleep with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used , and did n't awaken until early afternoon .
cl12.3.2	post-adj3	He finally fell with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used around six in the morning asleep , and did n't awaken until early afternoon .
cl12.3.3	post-adj3	He finally fell asleep with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used around six in the morning , and did n't awaken until early afternoon .
cl12.3.4	post-adj3	He finally fell with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used asleep around six in the morning , and did n't awaken until early afternoon .
cl12.3.5	post-adj3	He finally fell around six in the morning with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used asleep , and did n't awaken until early afternoon .
cl12.8.0	ref	It was still a very big world , despite all the modern cant to the contrary .
cl12.8.1	post-adj2	It was despite all the modern cant to the contrary a very big world , still .
cl12.11.0	ref	He snapped to alertness at Andy 's entrance .
cl12.11.1	post-adj2	He snapped at Andy 's entrance to alertness .
cl12.24.0	ref	She 's got plenty of guts , Mr. Paxton .
cl12.24.1	dat-np-np	She 's got Mr. Paxton , to plenty of guts .
cl12.31.0	ref	He had little time to himself , anyway .
cl12.31.1	post-adj2	He had little time anyway , to himself .
cl12.32.0	ref	As the afternoon sped toward evening , the suite saw a steady procession of Paxton aides pass in and out , each with his own special problem .
cl12.32.1	pre-adv	The suite saw a steady procession of Paxton aides pass in and out , each with his own special problem , as the afternoon sped toward evening .
cl12.35.0	ref	What remained lacked the original verve but it was at least dignified , as befitting the tragic circumstances .
cl12.35.1	post-adj2	What remained lacked the original verve but it was as befitting the tragic circumstances dignified , at least .
cl12.37.0	ref	Charlie Marble was back and forth on several occasions , first to confer with Andy on the advisability of cancelling the Las Vegas engagement -- they decided it was wise -- and later to announce that a prominent comedian , also an agency client , had agreed to fill the casino 's open date .
cl12.37.1	post-adj2	Charlie Marble was on several occasions back and forth , first to confer with Andy on the advisability of cancelling the Las Vegas engagement -- they decided it was wise -- and later to announce that a prominent comedian , also an agency client , had agreed to fill the casino 's open date .
cl12.38.0	ref	And once Bake slipped in , pale and drawn , last night 's liquor still on his breath with some of today 's added to it .
cl12.38.1	post-adv	With some of today 's added to it and once Bake slipped in , pale and drawn , last night 's liquor still on his breath .
cl12.40.0	ref	Andy invented a job to keep him busy , sending him ahead to El Dorado to supervise last minute arrangements .
cl12.40.1	post-adv	To keep him busy Andy invented a job , sending him ahead to El Dorado to supervise last minute arrangements .
cl12.40.2	post-adj2	Andy invented a job to keep him busy , sending him to El Dorado ahead to supervise last minute arrangements .
cl12.47.0	ref	Long before he reached the protection of the stage door , Andy was recognized .
cl12.47.1	pre-adv	Andy was recognized , long before he reached the protection of the stage door .
cl12.48.0	ref	Word of his arrival spread through the crowd like a brushfire .
cl12.48.1	post-adj2	Word of his arrival spread like a brushfire through the crowd .
cl12.52.0	ref	`` It 's worse inside '' , Thornburg informed Andy .
cl12.52.1	quote	`` It 's worse inside '' , informed Thornburg Andy .
cl12.68.0	ref	Skolman is n't going to like it much , though , giving away what he should be selling '' .
cl12.68.1	post-adj2	Skolman is n't going to like it though , much , giving away what he should be selling '' .
cl12.71.0	ref	`` I got a bone to pick with you , Mr. Paxton .
cl12.71.1	dat-np-np	`` I got Mr. Paxton , to a bone to pick with you .
cl12.76.0	ref	My men have been here all afternoon , setting up for this thing '' .
cl12.76.1	post-adj2	My men have been all afternoon here , setting up for this thing '' .
cl12.78.0	ref	Motion picture cameras had been installed to film the audience , the reservation list was being checked out name by name , and a special detail was already at work in the parking lot scrutinizing automobiles for a possible lead .
cl12.78.1	post-adj2	Motion picture cameras had been installed to film the audience , the reservation list was being checked out name by name , and a special detail was in the parking lot at work already scrutinizing automobiles for a possible lead .
cl12.79.0	ref	However , it was virtually impossible to screen the mob outside , even if Bonner had manpower available for the purpose .
cl12.79.1	post-adv	Even if Bonner had manpower available for the purpose , however , it was virtually impossible to screen the mob outside .
cl12.95.0	ref	`` What you do n't understand is that I 'm asking for it now '' .
cl12.95.1	post-adj2	`` What you do n't understand is that I 'm asking now for it '' .
cl12.105.0	ref	`` The sweaty bastard 's probably halfway to Peru with our money by now '' .
cl12.105.1	post-adj3	`` The sweaty bastard 's with our money halfway to Peru probably by now '' .
cl12.105.2	post-adj3	`` The sweaty bastard 's by now halfway to Peru with our money probably '' .
cl12.105.3	post-adj3	`` The sweaty bastard 's probably halfway to Peru by now with our money '' .
cl12.105.4	post-adj3	`` The sweaty bastard 's by now probably halfway to Peru with our money '' .
cl12.105.5	post-adj3	`` The sweaty bastard 's halfway to Peru with our money by now probably '' .
cl12.106.0	ref	When no one smiled , he felt constrained to add , `` Just kidding , natch '' .
cl12.106.1	pre-adv	He felt constrained to add , `` Just kidding , natch , when no one smiled '' .
cl12.113.0	ref	We got a bunch of sippers out there tonight .
cl12.113.1	dat-np-np	We got tonight out there to a bunch of sippers .
cl12.113.2	post-adj2	We got a bunch of sippers tonight out there .
cl12.118.0	ref	If Rock shows up during the number -- or you hear anything -- give me the signal '' .
cl12.118.1	dat-np-np	If Rock shows up during the number -- or you hear anything -- give the signal to me '' .
cl12.118.2	pre-adv	Give me the signal , if Rock shows up during the number -- or you hear anything -- '' .
cl12.124.0	ref	It was what they said before every performance but tonight it sounded different , as if he really needed it .
cl12.124.1	post-adv	It was what they said before every performance but , as if he really needed it , tonight it sounded different .
cl12.132.0	ref	Twenty-four hours had changed him from a performer to a freak .
cl12.132.1	post-adj2	Twenty-four hours had changed him to a freak from a performer .
cl12.136.0	ref	Yet Andy plowed ahead , mouthing the inconsequential words as if they possessed real meaning , and gradually his listeners warmed to him .
cl12.136.1	post-adv	Yet Andy plowed ahead , as if they possessed real meaning mouthing the inconsequential words , and gradually his listeners warmed to him .
cl12.139.0	ref	As Andy reached the finale of his act , a subdued commotion backstage drew his attention to the wings .
cl12.139.1	pre-adv	A subdued commotion backstage drew his attention to the wings , as Andy reached the finale of his act .
cl12.142.0	ref	Andy felt his heart thud heavily with relief .
cl12.142.1	post-adj2	Andy felt his heart thud with relief heavily .
cl12.144.0	ref	The music died away discordantly .
cl12.144.1	post-adj2	The music died discordantly away .
cl12.146.0	ref	`` Ladies and gentlemen , in place of my regular closing number tonight , I 'd like to sing something of a different nature for you .
cl12.146.1	pre-adj2	`` Ladies and gentlemen , tonight in place of my regular closing number , I 'd like to sing something of a different nature for you .
cl12.151.0	ref	Having no choice , he plunged into it , anyway , holding onto the microphone for support .
cl12.151.1	post-adj2	Having no choice , he plunged anyway , into it , holding onto the microphone for support .
cl12.157.0	ref	But when he was finally through , their scorn was made apparent .
cl12.157.1	pre-adv	But their scorn was made apparent , when he was finally through .
cl12.157.2	post-adj2	But when he was through finally , their scorn was made apparent .
cl12.160.0	ref	As the lights came up , Andy could see that a number of patrons were already on their way toward the exit .
cl12.160.1	pre-adv	Andy could see that a number of patrons were already on their way toward the exit , as the lights came up .
cl12.178.0	ref	`` I got it , Andy .
cl12.178.1	dat-np-np	`` I got Andy , to it .
cl12.185.0	ref	He clutched that knowledge to him as he returned to his dressing room .
cl12.185.1	post-adv	As he returned to his dressing room he clutched that knowledge to him .
cl12.187.0	ref	Andy had no desire to linger himself but Hub reported that the mob outside was still large despite the efforts of the police to disperse them .
cl12.187.1	post-adj2	Andy had no desire to linger himself but Hub reported that the mob outside was despite the efforts of the police to disperse them large still .
cl13.1.0	ref	His son watched until he got as far as the hall , almost out of sight , then hurried after .
cl13.1.1	post-adv	His son until he got as far as the hall , almost out of sight watched , then hurried after .
cl13.4.0	ref	He caught up with the old man in the living room .
cl13.4.1	post-adj2	He caught in the living room up with the old man .
cl13.7.0	ref	Just do n't tell Ferguson that crazy opinion of yours '' .
cl13.7.1	dat-np-np	Just do n't tell that crazy opinion of yours to Ferguson '' .
cl13.9.0	ref	The old man gave the room a stare in leaving ; under the scraggly brows the pale old eyes burned with a bitter memory .
cl13.9.1	dat-np-np	The old man gave a stare to the room in leaving ; under the scraggly brows the pale old eyes burned with a bitter memory .
cl13.13.0	ref	They 've found some sort of new evidence , a bundle of clothes or something , and it must link the kid even stronger to the crime .
cl13.13.1	post-adj2	They 've found some sort of new evidence , a bundle of clothes or something , and it must link the kid to the crime even stronger .
cl13.15.0	ref	The two kids were together a lot , they were having some kind of teen-age affair -- God knows how far that had gone -- and the kid 's crippled .
cl13.15.1	post-adj2	The two kids were a lot together , they were having some kind of teen-age affair -- God knows how far that had gone -- and the kid 's crippled .
cl13.20.0	ref	You should have gone to work today , 'stead of sneaking around spying on the Dronk house '' .
cl13.20.1	post-adj3	You should have gone today to work , 'stead of sneaking around spying on the Dronk house '' .
cl13.20.2	post-adj3	You should have gone 'stead of sneaking around spying on the Dronk house today , to work '' .
cl13.20.3	post-adj3	You should have gone to work 'stead of sneaking around spying on the Dronk house , today '' .
cl13.20.4	post-adj3	You should have gone , 'stead of sneaking around spying on the Dronk house , to work today '' .
cl13.20.5	post-adj3	You should have gone today , 'stead of sneaking around spying on the Dronk house to work '' .
cl13.21.0	ref	`` Now , see here '' -- `` The trouble with you '' , old man Arthur began , and then checked himself .
cl13.21.1	quote	`` Now , see here '' -- `` The trouble with you '' , began old man Arthur , and then checked himself .
cl13.24.0	ref	`` Is n't enough time to go into it '' , he finished , and slammed the door in his son 's face .
cl13.24.1	quote	`` Is n't enough time to go into it '' , finished , and slammed he the door in his son 's face .
cl13.26.0	ref	`` They found something else up there '' , she said half-aloud to the empty room .
cl13.26.1	quote	`` They found something else up there '' , said she half-aloud to the empty room .
cl13.27.0	ref	`` They took it away , overalls or something '' .
cl13.27.1	dat-np-np	`` They took overalls or something away , to it '' .
cl13.28.0	ref	She walked restlessly across the room , then back to the windows .
cl13.28.1	post-adj2	She walked across the room , then back to the windows restlessly .
cl13.31.0	ref	She was wearing a brown cotton dress , cut across the hips in a way that was supposed to make her look slimmer , a yoke set into the skirt and flaring pleats below .
cl13.31.1	post-adj2	She was wearing a brown cotton dress , cut in a way that was supposed to make her look slimmer , a yoke set into the skirt and flaring pleats below across the hips .
cl13.43.0	ref	`` But I could n't do that , even if I were home '' !
cl13.43.1	post-adv	`` But I , even if I were home , could n't do that '' !
cl13.49.0	ref	You ca n't wander along in the dark , can you ?
cl13.49.1	post-adj2	You ca n't wander in the dark along , can you ?
cl13.60.0	ref	Come home right away '' .
cl13.60.1	post-adj2	Come right away home '' .
cl13.68.0	ref	He passed the receptionist in the outer office , muttering , `` I 've got to go out for a little while '' .
cl13.68.1	post-adj2	He passed the receptionist in the outer office , muttering , `` I 've got to go for a little while out '' .
cl13.69.0	ref	Let her call Crosson if she wanted to , let Crosson raise the roof or even can him , he did n't care .
cl13.69.1	post-adv	If she wanted to let her call Crosson , let Crosson raise the roof or even can him , he did n't care .
cl13.73.0	ref	When he turned into the highway that led to the outskirts of the city and then rose toward home , he had to pull over to the curb and wait for a few minutes , sucking in air and squinting and blinking his eyes to clear them of tears .
cl13.73.1	pre-adv	He had to pull over to the curb and wait for a few minutes , sucking in air and squinting and blinking his eyes to clear them of tears , when he turned into the highway that led to the outskirts of the city and then rose toward home .
cl13.79.0	ref	She was going to keep on scheming , poking , prodding , suggesting , and dictating until the cops got up enough interest in him to go back to their old neighborhood and ask questions .
cl13.79.1	post-adv	She was going until the cops got up enough interest in him to go back to their old neighborhood and ask questions to keep on scheming , poking , prodding , suggesting , and dictating .
cl13.79.2	post-adj2	She was going to keep on scheming , poking , prodding , suggesting , and dictating until the cops got up enough interest in him to go to their old neighborhood back and ask questions .
cl13.80.0	ref	And he knew in that moment , with a cold sinking of despair , a dying of old hopes , that Mae had spread some kind of word there among the neighbors .
cl13.80.1	post-adj2	And he knew with a cold sinking of despair , a dying of old hopes , in that moment , that Mae had spread some kind of word there among the neighbors .
cl13.83.0	ref	Though his inner thoughts cringed at it , he forced himself to think back , recreating the scene in which Mae claimed to have caught him molesting the child .
cl13.83.1	pre-adv	He forced himself to think back , recreating the scene in which Mae claimed to have caught him molesting the child , though his inner thoughts cringed at it .
cl13.90.0	ref	And when he came to examine the scene , there was a certain staginess to it , it had the smell of planning , and a swift suspicion darted into his mind .
cl13.90.1	pre-adv	And there was a certain staginess to it , when he came to examine the scene , it had the smell of planning , and a swift suspicion darted into his mind .
cl13.97.0	ref	There was no use wandering off into a territory of utter nightmare .
cl13.97.1	post-adj2	There was no use wandering into a territory of utter nightmare off .
cl13.99.0	ref	She was married to him for better or for worse .
cl13.99.1	post-adj2	She was married for better or for worse to him .
cl13.103.0	ref	Even as the conviction of truth roared through him , shattering his last hope of safety , he was reaching to release the hand brake , to head up the road for home , doing her bidding .
cl13.103.1	pre-adv	He was reaching to release the hand brake , to head up the road for home , doing her bidding , even as the conviction of truth roared through him , shattering his last hope of safety .
cl13.104.0	ref	He drove , and the road wobbled , familiar scenes crept past on either side .
cl13.104.1	post-adj2	He drove , and the road wobbled , familiar scenes crept on either side past .
cl13.110.0	ref	Cooper was beside his car , on the curb at the right , just standing there morosely ; he did n't even look up .
cl13.110.1	post-adj2	Cooper was on the curb at the right , beside his car , just standing there morosely ; he did n't even look up .
cl13.111.0	ref	Behind him on the steps of the little office sat old man Arthur ; he was straight , something angry in his attitude , as if he might be waiting to report something .
cl13.111.1	pre-adj2	On the steps of the little office behind him sat old man Arthur ; he was straight , something angry in his attitude , as if he might be waiting to report something .
cl13.111.2	post-adv	Behind him on the steps of the little office sat old man Arthur ; as if he might be waiting to report something , he was straight , something angry in his attitude .
cl13.113.0	ref	A new idea drifted in from nowhere .
cl13.113.1	post-adj2	A new idea drifted from nowhere in .
cl13.115.0	ref	He could tell them his fears of being involved , he could explain what had happened in the old neighborhood and how Mae had misunderstood and how she had held it over him -- the scene was complete in his mind at the moment , even to his own jerkings and snivelings , and Ferguson 's silent patience .
cl13.115.1	dat-np-np	He could tell his fears of being involved to them , he could explain what had happened in the old neighborhood and how Mae had misunderstood and how she had held it over him -- the scene was complete in his mind at the moment , even to his own jerkings and snivelings , and Ferguson 's silent patience .
cl13.119.0	ref	Once he had abandoned himself to the very worst , once he had quieted all the dragons of worry and suspense , there would n't be very much for Mae to do .
cl13.119.1	pre-adv	There would n't be very much for Mae to do , once he had abandoned himself to the very worst , once he had quieted all the dragons of worry and suspense .
cl13.132.0	ref	If Ferguson 's car had been in sight , Holden would have walked directly to it .
cl13.132.1	pre-adv	Holden would have walked directly to it , if Ferguson 's car had been in sight .
cl13.138.0	ref	`` I 've been thinking '' , she said , swallowing the toast .
cl13.138.1	quote	`` I 've been thinking '' , said , swallowing she the toast .
cl13.147.0	ref	I 'm sure they were in the garage up until a couple of days ago .
cl13.147.1	post-adj2	I 'm sure they were up until a couple of days ago in the garage .
cl13.153.0	ref	Worn through at the knees '' .
cl13.153.1	post-adj2	Worn at the knees through '' .
cl13.164.0	ref	`` My goodness , you ought to remember if I do .
cl13.164.1	post-adv	`` My goodness , you ought if I do to remember .
cl13.166.0	ref	Tell them the truth or something before they come here '' .
cl13.166.1	dat-np-np	Tell the truth or something to them before they come here '' .
cl13.166.2	post-adv	Before they come here tell them the truth or something '' .
cl14.1.0	ref	A man with a sketch pad in hand sat with a large pink woman in a small office at the end of a long , dim corridor and made pencil lines on paper and said , `` Is this more like it , Mrs. MacReady ? Or are the eyebrows more like this '' ?
cl14.1.1	post-adj2	A man with a sketch pad in hand sat in a small office at the end of a long , dim corridor with a large pink woman and made pencil lines on paper and said , `` Is this more like it , Mrs. MacReady ? Or are the eyebrows more like this '' ?
cl14.2.0	ref	When he had finished with that , he would go to another part of the hotel and say much the same things to someone else , most probably a busboy .
cl14.2.1	pre-adv	He would go to another part of the hotel and say much the same things to someone else , most probably a busboy , when he had finished with that .
cl14.3.0	ref	`` Begin to look like him now , would you say ?
cl14.3.1	post-adj2	`` Begin to look now like him , would you say ?
cl14.11.0	ref	But Gardner Willings was not included ; he had been at the Dumont for almost a week .
cl14.11.1	post-adj2	But Gardner Willings was not included ; he had been for almost a week at the Dumont .
cl14.14.0	ref	With names and addresses listed , verification came next .
cl14.14.1	pre-adv	Verification came next , with names and addresses listed .
cl14.16.0	ref	-LRB- `` I certainly was not at the Dumont last night and my husband could n't have been .
cl14.16.1	post-adj2	-LRB- `` I certainly was not last night at the Dumont and my husband could n't have been .
cl14.24.0	ref	Failing to find what was wanted , as was most likely , check out other guests , with special -- but not exclusive -- attention to those with rooms on the street .
cl14.24.1	post-adv	As was most likely , failing to find what was wanted , check out other guests , with special -- but not exclusive -- attention to those with rooms on the street .
cl14.25.0	ref	-LRB- Anyone active enough can reach a roof , wherever his room may be . -RRB-
cl14.25.1	post-adv	-LRB- Anyone active enough , wherever his room may be , can reach a roof . -RRB-
cl14.26.0	ref	And know , while all this went on , that there was no real reason to suppose that the murderer had been a guest in either hotel .
cl14.26.1	post-adv	While all this went on , and know that there was no real reason to suppose that the murderer had been a guest in either hotel .
cl14.33.0	ref	The sniper , whether psychopathic marksman or murderer by intent , would hardly have walked to his vantage point with rifle over shoulder , whistling a marching tune .
cl14.33.1	post-adj2	The sniper , whether psychopathic marksman or murderer by intent , would hardly have walked with rifle over shoulder to his vantage point , whistling a marching tune .
cl14.58.0	ref	There had also been a man who must have had St. Vitus or something , because he kept jerking his head .
cl14.58.1	post-adv	There had also been a man who must , because he kept jerking his head , have had St. Vitus or something .
cl14.59.0	ref	As reports dribbled in , William Weigand tossed them into the centrifuge which had become his head .
cl14.59.1	pre-adv	William Weigand tossed them into the centrifuge which had become his head , as reports dribbled in .
cl14.64.0	ref	The State cops would check from time to time ; pass word when there was word to pass .
cl14.64.1	post-adv	The State cops would when there was word to pass check from time to time ; pass word .
cl14.72.0	ref	They had been with Payne when he was shot , could not therefore have shot him from above .
cl14.72.1	post-adv	They when he was shot had been with Payne , could not therefore have shot him from above .
cl14.76.0	ref	Consider him seriously , therefore ?
cl14.76.1	post-adj2	Consider him therefore , seriously ?
cl14.81.0	ref	Because , if for no other reason , Willings would never for a moment suppose he was not bigger , tougher , than anything else that went on two legs .
cl14.81.1	pre-adv	Because , Willings would never for a moment suppose he was not bigger , tougher , than anything else that went on two legs , if for no other reason .
cl14.82.0	ref	Ambushes are laid by those who doubt themselves , as any man may against a tiger .
cl14.82.1	post-adv	Ambushes are laid by those who , as any man may against a tiger , doubt themselves .
cl14.88.0	ref	Grudges simply do not keep that well in a sane mind .
cl14.88.1	post-adj2	Grudges simply do not keep in a sane mind that well .
cl14.98.0	ref	She might now have taken it away again .
cl14.98.1	post-adj2	She might now have taken it again away .
cl14.102.0	ref	But -- it happened , almost always , among the primitive and , usually , among the very young .
cl14.102.1	post-adj2	But -- it happened , among the primitive and , usually , among the very young , almost always .
cl14.113.0	ref	Here , too , the cause to hate lay well back in the years .
cl14.113.1	pre-adj2	Too , here , the cause to hate lay well back in the years .
cl14.116.0	ref	The boy had , apparently -- if Mrs. MacReady was right in what she had told Mullins -- only in recent months been forced to give up college , to work as a busboy .
cl14.116.1	post-adv	If Mrs. MacReady was right in what she had told Mullins -- the boy had , apparently only in recent months been forced to give up college , to work as a busboy .
cl14.116.2	post-adj2	The boy had , only in recent months -- if Mrs. MacReady was right in what she had told Mullins -- apparently been forced to give up college , to work as a busboy .
cl14.118.0	ref	`` Send out a pickup on Mrs. Mason and the boy when you 've got enough to go on '' , Bill said .
cl14.118.1	post-adv	`` When you 've got enough to go on send out a pickup on Mrs. Mason and the boy '' , Bill said .
cl14.118.2	post-adj2	`` Send on Mrs. Mason and the boy a pickup out when you 've got enough to go on '' , Bill said .
cl14.125.0	ref	He was also , if Pam North was right , a closer acquaintance of Lauren Payne 's than she , now , was inclined to admit .
cl14.125.1	post-adv	If Pam North was right , he was also a closer acquaintance of Lauren Payne 's than she , now , was inclined to admit .
cl14.133.0	ref	When Siamese cats are intertwined it is difficult to tell where one leaves off and another begins .
cl14.133.1	pre-adv	It is difficult to tell where one leaves off and another begins when Siamese cats are intertwined .
cl14.137.0	ref	Of four dark brown ears , one twitched slightly at this .
cl14.137.1	post-adj2	Of four dark brown ears , one twitched at this slightly .
cl14.145.0	ref	It was not , whatever tale was told by tails .
cl14.145.1	post-adv	Whatever tale was told by tails , it was not .
cl14.149.0	ref	They want to be fat cats , Pam thought , and lighted a cigarette and leaned back on a chaise and considered pulling her thoughts together .
cl14.149.1	quote	They want to be fat cats , thought , and lighted a cigarette and leaned Pam back on a chaise and considered pulling her thoughts together .
cl14.149.2	post-adj2	They want to be fat cats , Pam thought , and lighted a cigarette and leaned on a chaise back and considered pulling her thoughts together .
cl14.158.0	ref	Some people have luck and some have no luck and that , whatever people who prefer order say , is the size of it .
cl14.158.1	pre-adv	Some people have luck and some have no luck and that is the size of it , whatever people who prefer order say .
cl14.171.0	ref	`` I said I would '' , Pam said .
cl14.171.1	quote	`` I said I would '' , said Pam .
cl14.175.0	ref	Not unless they have '' -- She was interrupted .
cl14.175.1	pre-adv	She was interrupted not unless they have '' .
cl15.5.0	ref	`` If there was collusion between an outside murderer and a member of the household it would be an elementary precaution to check on the door later .
cl15.5.1	pre-adv	It would be an elementary precaution to check on the door later `` if there was collusion between an outside murderer and a member of the household .
cl15.5.2	post-adj2	`` If there was collusion between an outside murderer and a member of the household it would be an elementary precaution to check later on the door .
cl15.8.0	ref	`` Do n't forget , there was the hope it would pass for a natural death '' , Pauling reminded him .
cl15.8.1	quote	`` Do n't forget , there was the hope it would pass for a natural death '' , reminded Pauling him .
cl15.9.0	ref	`` Well , with a house as big as that there must be at least one cellar window that would n't be noticed right away unless there was a police investigation '' .
cl15.9.1	post-adv	`` Well , with a house as big as that there must be at least one cellar window that would n't unless there was a police investigation be noticed right away '' .
cl15.13.0	ref	I was hoping I 'd hear from you today '' .
cl15.13.1	post-adj2	I was hoping I 'd hear today from you '' .
cl15.14.0	ref	With his free hand he pulled a pad and pencil toward him and began to make notes as he listened , saying , `` Uh-huh '' and `` I see '' at intervals .
cl15.14.1	post-adv	With his free hand he pulled a pad and pencil toward him and began as he listened to make notes , saying , `` Uh-huh '' and `` I see '' at intervals .
cl15.16.0	ref	Although there was no doubt in my mind and we 've been handling it as one I 'm glad to have it made official '' .
cl15.16.1	pre-adv	I 'm glad to have it made official although there was no doubt in my mind and we 've been handling it as one '' .
cl15.33.0	ref	`` So there it is '' , he said .
cl15.33.1	quote	`` So there it is '' , said he .
cl15.37.0	ref	He had to look for other prospects , other motives until more conclusive evidence pointing to Johnston came to light .
cl15.37.1	post-adv	He had until more conclusive evidence pointing to Johnston came to light to look for other prospects , other motives .
cl15.38.0	ref	Madden , with his investigation centered on the fraud , said that tomorrow he would go to the Bronx bank through which Mrs. Meeker 's checks to Johnston had cleared .
cl15.38.1	pre-adv	Madden said that tomorrow he would go to the Bronx bank through which Mrs. Meeker 's checks to Johnston had cleared , with his investigation centered on the fraud .
cl15.39.0	ref	Arthur Williams had to be located , they agreed .
cl15.39.1	quote	Arthur Williams had to be located , agreed they .
cl15.42.0	ref	If Arthur Williams was involved in the fraud or the murder , then he too had another identity .
cl15.42.1	pre-adv	Then he too had another identity , if Arthur Williams was involved in the fraud or the murder .
cl15.57.0	ref	Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred to with fastidious distaste as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it .
cl15.57.1	post-adv	Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred to with fastidious distaste as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it have ever come about .
cl15.57.2	post-adj3	Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred with fastidious distaste to as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it .
cl15.57.3	post-adj3	Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it with fastidious distaste to .
cl15.57.4	post-adj3	Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred to as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it with fastidious distaste .
cl15.57.5	post-adj3	Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it to with fastidious distaste .
cl15.57.6	post-adj3	Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred with fastidious distaste as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it to .
cl15.70.0	ref	`` Mr. Hohlbein and I have noticed some lapses since , though .
cl15.70.1	post-adj2	`` Mr. Hohlbein and I have noticed some lapses though , since .
cl15.72.0	ref	Even two or three years ago I doubt that she 'd have become involved in this unfortunate Johnston affair .
cl15.72.1	pre-adj2	Two or three years ago even I doubt that she 'd have become involved in this unfortunate Johnston affair .
cl15.80.0	ref	He skimmed over the millions that went to Meeker Park , Medfield Hospital , the civic center , the Public Health Nursing Association , the library , and so on , pausing when he came to the scholarship fund .
cl15.80.1	post-adv	He skimmed over the millions that went to Meeker Park , Medfield Hospital , the civic center , the Public Health Nursing Association , the library , and so on , when he came to the scholarship fund pausing .
cl15.81.0	ref	Two millions were added to what had been set aside for it in Mrs. Meeker 's lifetime , and the proviso made that as long as Brian Thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees -LRB- hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate -RRB- he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail .
cl15.81.1	post-adj3	Two millions were added to what had been set for it aside in Mrs. Meeker 's lifetime , and the proviso made that as long as Brian Thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees -LRB- hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate -RRB- he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail .
cl15.81.2	post-adj3	Two millions were added to what had been set in Mrs. Meeker 's lifetime for it aside , and the proviso made that as long as Brian Thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees -LRB- hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate -RRB- he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail .
cl15.81.3	post-adj3	Two millions were added to what had been set aside in Mrs. Meeker 's lifetime for it , and the proviso made that as long as Brian Thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees -LRB- hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate -RRB- he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail .
cl15.81.4	post-adj3	Two millions were added to what had been set in Mrs. Meeker 's lifetime aside for it , and the proviso made that as long as Brian Thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees -LRB- hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate -RRB- he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail .
cl15.81.5	post-adj3	Two millions were added to what had been set for it in Mrs. Meeker 's lifetime aside , and the proviso made that as long as Brian Thayer continued to discharge his duties as administrator of the fund to the satisfaction of the board of trustees -LRB- hereinafter appointed by the bank administering the estate -RRB- he was to be retained in his present capacity at a salary commensurate with the increased responsibilities enlargement of the fund would entail .
cl15.86.0	ref	Twenty-five thousand to each of the great-nieces in Oregon -LRB- not much to blood relatives out of millions -RRB- ten thousand to this friend and that , five thousand to another ; to Brian Thayer , the sum of ten thousand dollars ; to the Pecks , ten thousand each ; to Joan Sheldon the conditional bequest of ten thousand to be paid to her in the event that she was still in Mrs. Meeker 's employ at the time of the latter 's death .
cl15.86.1	post-adj2	Twenty-five thousand to each of the great-nieces in Oregon -LRB- not much to blood relatives out of millions -RRB- ten thousand to this friend and that , five thousand to another ; to Brian Thayer , the sum of ten thousand dollars ; to the Pecks , ten thousand each ; to Joan Sheldon the conditional bequest of ten thousand to be paid in the event that she was still in Mrs. Meeker 's employ at the time of the latter 's death to her .
cl15.87.0	ref	-LRB- No additional five thousand for each year after Joan 's twenty-first birthday ; Mrs. Meeker had n't got around to taking care of that . -RRB-
cl15.87.1	post-adj2	-LRB- No additional five thousand for each year after Joan 's twenty-first birthday ; Mrs. Meeker had n't got to taking care of that around . -RRB-
cl15.92.0	ref	Arthur Williams 's might well have been included , he felt .
cl15.92.1	quote	Arthur Williams 's might well have been included , felt he .
cl15.93.0	ref	Mrs. Meeker had spent a small fortune on a search for him but had made no provision for him in her will if he should be found after her death , and had never mentioned his name to her lawyers .
cl15.93.1	post-adv	Mrs. Meeker had spent a small fortune on a search for him but if he should be found after her death had made no provision for him in her will , and had never mentioned his name to her lawyers .
cl15.97.0	ref	`` Well , she had a number of them where money was concerned '' , Garth said .
cl15.97.1	post-adv	`` Where money was concerned well , she had a number of them '' , Garth said .
cl15.97.2	quote	`` Well , she had a number of them where money was concerned '' , said Garth .
cl15.98.0	ref	`` Sometimes we 'd have trouble persuading her to make tax-exempt charitable contributions , and I 've known her to quarrel with a plumber over a bill for fixing a faucet ; the next moment she 'd put another half million into the scholarship fund or thirty thousand into something as impractical as this unfortunate Johnston affair .
cl15.98.1	post-adj2	`` Sometimes we 'd have trouble persuading her to make tax-exempt charitable contributions , and I 've known her to quarrel over a bill for fixing a faucet with a plumber ; the next moment she 'd put another half million into the scholarship fund or thirty thousand into something as impractical as this unfortunate Johnston affair .
cl15.100.0	ref	Madden inquired next about the audit of the scholarship fund .
cl15.100.1	post-adj2	Madden inquired about the audit of the scholarship fund next .
cl15.101.0	ref	There was an annual audit , Garth informed him .
cl15.101.1	quote	There was an annual audit , informed Garth him .
cl15.106.0	ref	The lawyer did n't know him very well although he saw him occasionally at some dinner party -- Thayer , like himself , Madden reflected , was the extra man so prized by hostesses -- and found him easy enough to talk to .
cl15.106.1	post-adv	The lawyer although he saw him occasionally at some dinner party -- Thayer , like himself , Madden reflected , was the extra man so prized by hostesses -- and found him easy enough to talk to did n't know him very well .
cl15.118.0	ref	The inspector knew as he left that this was wishful thinking .
cl15.118.1	post-adv	As he left the inspector knew that this was wishful thinking .
cl16.4.0	ref	His rage had built up as he made his way here from the second floor , helped by the quantity of champagne he had consumed .
cl16.4.1	post-adv	His rage , as he made his way here from the second floor , had built up helped by the quantity of champagne he had consumed .
cl16.17.0	ref	Griffith looked at him suspiciously through red-rimmed eyes .
cl16.17.1	post-adj3	Griffith looked suspiciously at him through red-rimmed eyes .
cl16.17.2	post-adj3	Griffith looked through red-rimmed eyes suspiciously at him .
cl16.17.3	post-adj3	Griffith looked at him through red-rimmed eyes suspiciously .
cl16.17.4	post-adj3	Griffith looked through red-rimmed eyes at him suspiciously .
cl16.17.5	post-adj3	Griffith looked suspiciously through red-rimmed eyes at him .
cl16.21.0	ref	I did get you on the platform this morning '' .
cl16.21.1	dat-np-np	I did get this morning on the platform to you '' .
cl16.21.2	post-adj2	I did get you this morning on the platform '' .
cl16.25.0	ref	He peered closely at Hoag in the gathering darkness .
cl16.25.1	post-adj3	He peered at Hoag closely in the gathering darkness .
cl16.25.2	post-adj3	He peered in the gathering darkness at Hoag closely .
cl16.25.3	post-adj3	He peered closely in the gathering darkness at Hoag .
cl16.25.4	post-adj3	He peered in the gathering darkness closely at Hoag .
cl16.25.5	post-adj3	He peered at Hoag in the gathering darkness closely .
cl16.30.0	ref	He stared at Hoag drunkenly .
cl16.30.1	post-adj2	He stared drunkenly at Hoag .
cl16.33.0	ref	You get back to the captain and tell him this : Somebody 's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and Mahzeer is in on the plot .
cl16.33.1	dat-np-np	You get back to the captain and tell this : Somebody 's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and Mahzeer is in on the plot to him .
cl16.33.2	post-adj2	You get to the captain back and tell him this : Somebody 's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and Mahzeer is in on the plot .
cl16.55.0	ref	If you want to spend another day in the State Department -- another day -- you get in there and tell that captain what I told you '' .
cl16.55.1	pre-adv	You get in there and tell that captain what I told you if you want to spend another day in the State Department -- another day '' .
cl16.66.0	ref	He finished his champagne and climbed uncertainly to the next landing .
cl16.66.1	post-adj2	He finished his champagne and climbed to the next landing uncertainly .
cl16.74.0	ref	Griffith said , `` Hoag told me to tell you '' -- he waited until they were close ; it was hideously embarrassing -- `` not to let the prime minister be alone with Mahzeer '' .
cl16.74.1	post-adv	Griffith said , `` Hoag told me to tell you '' -- until they were close he waited ; it was hideously embarrassing -- `` not to let the prime minister be alone with Mahzeer '' .
cl16.81.0	ref	And if by some wild chance Mahzeer was the man , he would n't dare try anything now -- not after Docherty had looked in on the two of them to see that all was well .
cl16.81.1	post-adv	And if by some wild chance Mahzeer was the man , he would n't dare -- not after Docherty had looked in on the two of them to see that all was well -- try anything now .
cl16.81.2	pre-adv	And he would n't dare try anything now -- not after Docherty had looked in on the two of them to see that all was well , if by some wild chance Mahzeer was the man .
cl16.82.0	ref	Docherty was damned if he would make a fool of himself again the way he had earlier over the laundry truck .
cl16.82.1	dat-np-np	Docherty was damned if he would make the way he had earlier over the laundry truck of himself again to a fool .
cl16.82.2	post-adv	Docherty if he would make a fool of himself again the way he had earlier over the laundry truck was damned .
cl16.82.3	post-adj2	Docherty was damned if he would make a fool again of himself the way he had earlier over the laundry truck .
cl16.90.0	ref	But Hoag had not stayed on the front steps when Griffith disappeared into the building .
cl16.90.1	post-adv	But Hoag when Griffith disappeared into the building had not stayed on the front steps .
cl16.92.0	ref	If Mahzeer was alone with the prime minister he could be arranging his execution while Hoag stood out here shivering in the darkening street .
cl16.92.1	post-adv	If Mahzeer was alone with the prime minister he could while Hoag stood out here shivering in the darkening street be arranging his execution .
cl16.92.2	pre-adv	He could be arranging his execution while Hoag stood out here shivering in the darkening street if Mahzeer was alone with the prime minister .
cl16.98.0	ref	If Mahzeer was planning to set up the prime minister for Muller he would have to do it in the next few minutes .
cl16.98.1	pre-adv	He would have to do it in the next few minutes if Mahzeer was planning to set up the prime minister for Muller .
cl16.115.0	ref	The legation was generously set back from the building line ; if the angle of fire were too great the jutting buildings on either side would interfere .
cl16.115.1	pre-adv	The legation was generously set back from the building line ; the jutting buildings on either side would interfere if the angle of fire were too great .
cl16.119.0	ref	With a cop patrolling the road Muller would have to be inside a building -- if he was here at all , and not waiting for the prime minister somewhere between this street and the terminal building at La Guardia Airport .
cl16.119.1	post-adv	With a cop patrolling the road Muller would have -- if he was here at all , and not waiting for the prime minister somewhere between this street and the terminal building at La Guardia Airport -- to be inside a building .
cl16.123.0	ref	He walked rapidly along the buildings scanning their facades : one was a club -- that was out ; two others he ruled out because all their windows were lighted .
cl16.123.1	post-adv	He walked rapidly along the buildings scanning their facades : one was a club -- that was out ; because all their windows were lighted two others he ruled out .
cl16.123.2	post-adj2	He walked along the buildings rapidly scanning their facades : one was a club -- that was out ; two others he ruled out because all their windows were lighted .
cl16.137.0	ref	He opened the inner door ; the cooking odors were stronger -- all over the city , at this hour , housewives would be fussing over stoves .
cl16.137.1	pre-adj2	He opened the inner door ; the cooking odors were stronger -- at this hour , all over the city , housewives would be fussing over stoves .
cl16.138.0	ref	He climbed , as quickly as he could urge his body , up the two unbroken flights to the third floor , pulling himself along on a delicate balustrade , all that remained of the building 's beauty .
cl16.138.1	post-adj2	He climbed , up the two unbroken flights to the third floor , as quickly as he could urge his body , pulling himself along on a delicate balustrade , all that remained of the building 's beauty .
cl16.152.0	ref	The room was bathed in light at the instant Muller 's second shot came .
cl16.152.1	post-adj2	The room was bathed at the instant Muller 's second shot came in light .
cl16.153.0	ref	Muller , nakedly exposed at the bright window like a deer pinned in a car 's headlights , threw down the rifle and turned to jump from the table ; his face wore a look of outrage .
cl16.153.1	post-adj2	Muller , nakedly exposed like a deer pinned in a car 's headlights at the bright window , threw down the rifle and turned to jump from the table ; his face wore a look of outrage .
cl16.155.0	ref	He was dead before his body made contact with the floor .
cl16.155.1	post-adv	Before his body made contact with the floor he was dead .
cl16.157.0	ref	After Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag he was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne .
cl16.157.1	post-adv	After Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag he was able before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above .
cl16.157.2	pre-adv	He was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne after Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag .
cl17.1.0	ref	The safe at Ingleside District Station stands next to the gum machine in a narrow passageway that leads to Captain Harris 's office -LRB- to the left -RRB- , the lieutenant 's office -LRB- farther along and to the left -RRB- and the janitor 's supply closet -LRB- straight ahead -RRB- .
cl17.1.1	post-adj2	The safe at Ingleside District Station stands in a narrow passageway that leads to Captain Harris 's office -LRB- to the left -RRB- , the lieutenant 's office -LRB- farther along and to the left -RRB- and the janitor 's supply closet -LRB- straight ahead -RRB- next to the gum machine .
cl17.3.0	ref	Gun set the captain 's fifth of Hiram Walker inside the safe before he reported to Lt. Killpath , though he knew that Killpath 's ulcer prevented him from making any untoward incursion on Herman Wolff 's gift .
cl17.3.1	post-adv	Before he reported to Lt. Killpath , Gun set the captain 's fifth of Hiram Walker inside the safe though he knew that Killpath 's ulcer prevented him from making any untoward incursion on Herman Wolff 's gift .
cl17.3.2	post-adv	Though he knew that Killpath 's ulcer prevented him from making any untoward incursion on Herman Wolff 's gift , Gun set the captain 's fifth of Hiram Walker inside the safe before he reported to Lt. Killpath .
cl17.9.0	ref	Gun went to the connecting door , which was open , and stood at attention while Orville Torrence Killpath , in full uniform , finished combing his hair .
cl17.9.1	post-adv	Gun while Orville Torrence Killpath , in full uniform , finished combing his hair went to the connecting door , which was open , and stood at attention .
cl17.10.0	ref	The lieutenant 's sparse brown hair was heavily pomaded , and as Killpath raked the comb through it , it stuck together in thatches so that it looked like umbrella ribs clinging to his pink skull .
cl17.10.1	post-adv	The lieutenant 's sparse brown hair was heavily pomaded , and so that it looked like umbrella ribs clinging to his pink skull as Killpath raked the comb through it , it stuck together in thatches .
cl17.10.2	pre-adv	The lieutenant 's sparse brown hair was heavily pomaded , and it stuck together in thatches so that it looked like umbrella ribs clinging to his pink skull , as Killpath raked the comb through it .
cl17.17.0	ref	Killpath peered through half-closed lids at his reflection , thrust up his chin in a gesture of satisfaction and about-faced .
cl17.17.1	post-adj2	Killpath peered at his reflection through half-closed lids , thrust up his chin in a gesture of satisfaction and about-faced .
cl17.19.0	ref	He sat stiff-backed in a chair that did not swivel , though it was obvious to Gun that Killpath felt his position as acting captain plainly merited a swivel chair .
cl17.19.1	post-adv	He sat stiff-backed in a chair that , though it was obvious to Gun that Killpath felt his position as acting captain plainly merited a swivel chair , did not swivel .
cl17.19.2	post-adj2	He sat in a chair that did not swivel , though it was obvious to Gun that Killpath felt his position as acting captain plainly merited a swivel chair stiff-backed .
cl17.31.0	ref	He rocked back in the chair , knee locked against stomach , his beady eyes fixed on Matson .
cl17.31.1	post-adj2	He rocked in the chair back , knee locked against stomach , his beady eyes fixed on Matson .
cl17.35.0	ref	Killpath said , `` You were expected to report to my office twenty minutes ago , Sergeant .
cl17.35.1	post-adj2	Killpath said , `` You were expected to report twenty minutes ago to my office , Sergeant .
cl17.39.0	ref	Gun knew that nothing but aces back to back would give the lieutenant an ulcer and a smile at the same time .
cl17.39.1	dat-np-np	Gun knew that nothing but aces back to back would give an ulcer and a smile to the lieutenant at the same time .
cl17.41.0	ref	`` I called the station at three this morning '' , Killpath 's nasal voice pronounced .
cl17.41.1	quote	`` I called the station at three this morning '' , pronounced Killpath 's nasal voice .
cl17.41.2	post-adj2	`` I called the station this morning at three '' , Killpath 's nasal voice pronounced .
cl17.46.0	ref	`` What if I said nobody was here but a couple of patrolmen '' ?
cl17.46.1	post-adj2	`` What if I said nobody was but a couple of patrolmen here '' ?
cl17.54.0	ref	`` That 's not taking one 's command with a responsible attitude , Matson '' .
cl17.54.1	dat-np-np	`` That 's not taking Matson with a responsible attitude , to one 's command '' .
cl17.56.0	ref	But stupidity was no consolation when it had rank .
cl17.56.1	post-adv	When it had rank but stupidity was no consolation .
cl17.61.0	ref	`` I might point out that your inability to report to my office this morning when you were instructed to do so has not ah limited my knowledge of your activities as you may have hoped '' .
cl17.61.1	post-adv	`` I might point out that your inability when you were instructed to do so to report to my office this morning has not ah limited my knowledge of your activities as you may have hoped '' .
cl17.61.2	post-adv	`` I might point out that your inability to report to my office this morning when you were instructed to do so as you may have hoped has not ah limited my knowledge of your activities '' .
cl17.61.3	post-adj2	`` I might point out that your inability to report this morning to my office when you were instructed to do so has not ah limited my knowledge of your activities as you may have hoped '' .
cl17.63.0	ref	A car pulled into the driveway outside the window .
cl17.63.1	post-adj2	A car pulled outside the window into the driveway .
cl17.78.0	ref	I would have been negligent and a goddam lousy cop to boot , if I 'd sat around this station all night when somebody got away with murder in my district .
cl17.78.1	post-adv	I would , if I 'd sat around this station all night when somebody got away with murder in my district , have been negligent and a goddam lousy cop to boot .
cl17.78.2	post-adv	I would have been negligent and a goddam lousy cop to boot , if I when somebody got away with murder in my district 'd sat around this station all night .
cl17.78.3	post-adj2	I would have been negligent and a goddam lousy cop to boot , if I 'd sat all night around this station when somebody got away with murder in my district .
cl17.79.0	ref	It 's too bad I did n't call you , and it 's too bad I let Schaeffer use Accacia when he could have had a boy who 'd be glad to learn something of Homicide procedure .
cl17.79.1	post-adv	It 's too bad I did n't call you , and it 's too bad when he could have had a boy who 'd be glad to learn something of Homicide procedure I let Schaeffer use Accacia .
cl17.83.0	ref	Gun stiffened , his hands balling into fists at his sides .
cl17.83.1	post-adj2	Gun stiffened , his hands balling at his sides into fists .
cl17.86.0	ref	Killpath leaned forward again , rocked comfortably with his arms still wrapped around one knee .
cl17.86.1	post-adv	Killpath with his arms still wrapped around one knee leaned forward again , rocked comfortably .
cl17.86.2	post-adj2	Killpath leaned again forward , rocked comfortably with his arms still wrapped around one knee .
cl17.89.0	ref	He interrupted himself , looking around Gun at the doorway .
cl17.89.1	post-adj2	He interrupted himself , looking at the doorway around Gun .
cl17.92.0	ref	I thought you had n't come in yet '' .
cl17.92.1	post-adj2	I thought you had n't come yet in '' .
cl17.93.0	ref	`` I 've been here for some time '' .
cl17.93.1	post-adj2	`` I 've been for some time here '' .
cl17.98.0	ref	Now , as he passed the open counter that divided the assembly room from the business office , he nodded and said good night to the station keeper and his clerks , not stopping to hear the day-watch playback of his chewing out .
cl17.98.1	pre-adv	Now he nodded and said good night to the station keeper and his clerks , not stopping to hear the day-watch playback of his chewing out , as he passed the open counter that divided the assembly room from the business office .
cl17.101.0	ref	If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit on his ass around the station all night , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; because he 'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain .
cl17.101.1	post-adv	If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit on his ass around the station all night , Killpath because he 'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour .
cl17.101.2	post-adv	If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit on his ass around the station all night , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; because he 'd if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain be damned .
cl17.101.3	pre-adv	Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; because he 'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain , if the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit on his ass around the station all night .
cl17.101.4	post-adj3	If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit around the station on his ass all night , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; because he 'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain .
cl17.101.5	post-adj3	If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit all night around the station on his ass , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; because he 'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain .
cl17.101.6	post-adj3	If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit on his ass all night around the station , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; because he 'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain .
cl17.101.7	post-adj3	If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit , all night , on his ass around the station , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; because he 'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain .
cl17.101.8	post-adj3	If the acting captain wanted his acting lieutenant to sit around the station all night , on his ass , Killpath would just have to go out and drag Gun back by the heels once an hour ; because he 'd be damned if he was going to be a mid-watch pencil-pusher just to please his ulcerated pro-tem captain .
cl17.103.0	ref	He could pick up another pack on his way home , if he were going home .
cl17.103.1	post-adv	He , if he were going home , could pick up another pack on his way home .
cl17.104.0	ref	But even before he started across the oiled road to his Plymouth , parked in the lot under the cypress trees across from the station , he knew that he was n't going home .
cl17.104.1	pre-adv	But he knew that he was n't going home even before he started across the oiled road to his Plymouth , parked in the lot under the cypress trees across from the station .
cl17.104.2	post-adj2	But even before he started to his Plymouth , parked in the lot under the cypress trees across from the station , across the oiled road he knew that he was n't going home .
cl17.109.0	ref	It was professedly worth three thousand dollars in stock and good will , and the name was written in gold in foot-high letters across each of the two display windows .
cl17.109.1	post-adj3	It was professedly worth three thousand dollars in stock and good will , and the name was written in foot-high letters in gold across each of the two display windows .
cl17.109.2	post-adj3	It was professedly worth three thousand dollars in stock and good will , and the name was written across each of the two display windows in foot-high letters in gold .
cl17.109.3	post-adj3	It was professedly worth three thousand dollars in stock and good will , and the name was written in gold across each of the two display windows in foot-high letters .
cl17.109.4	post-adj3	It was professedly worth three thousand dollars in stock and good will , and the name was written across each of the two display windows in gold in foot-high letters .
cl17.109.5	post-adj3	It was professedly worth three thousand dollars in stock and good will , and the name was written in foot-high letters across each of the two display windows in gold .
cl17.111.0	ref	Mr. Phillips took a razor to Gonzalez , Prop. , but left the promise that Spanish would be understood because he thought it meant that Spanish clientele would be welcome .
cl17.111.1	post-adv	Mr. Phillips because he thought it meant that Spanish clientele would be welcome took a razor to Gonzalez , Prop. , but left the promise that Spanish would be understood .
cl17.114.0	ref	`` She 's honest as the day '' , Mr. Phillips said , and added , `` Mr. Gunnar , I can say this to you : Beebe is a little too honest .
cl17.114.1	quote	`` She 's honest as the day '' , said , and added Mr. Phillips , `` Mr. Gunnar , I can say this to you : Beebe is a little too honest .
cl17.115.0	ref	You ca n't tell a customer how much it 's going to cost him to refinance his payments before he even signs for a loan on the money down !
cl17.115.1	post-adv	You before he even signs for a loan on the money down ca n't tell a customer how much it 's going to cost him to refinance his payments !
cl18.3.0	ref	`` I asked her why she could n't do it tomorrow , but it seems the muse is working good tonight and she 's afraid to let it go '' .
cl18.3.1	dat-np-np	`` I asked her why she could n't do tomorrow to it , but it seems the muse is working good tonight and she 's afraid to let it go '' .
cl18.4.0	ref	Casey made some comment , but his mind was busy as he considered the man .
cl18.4.1	post-adv	Casey made some comment , but as he considered the man his mind was busy .
cl18.8.0	ref	An only child , he had done all the things that young men do who have been born to money and social position until his father double-crossed him by dying broke .
cl18.8.1	post-adv	An only child , he until his father double-crossed him by dying broke had done all the things that young men do who have been born to money and social position .
cl18.9.0	ref	Since then he had worked at this and that , though some said his main interest was gambling .
cl18.9.1	post-adv	Since then he , though some said his main interest was gambling , had worked at this and that .
cl18.10.0	ref	All this went through Casey 's mind in the first instant , but what held his interest was the fact that these two should be together at all .
cl18.10.1	post-adj2	All this went in the first instant through Casey 's mind , but what held his interest was the fact that these two should be together at all .
cl18.17.0	ref	She glanced at her companion fondly .
cl18.17.1	post-adj2	She glanced fondly at her companion .
cl18.20.0	ref	The girl 's eyes were softly shining as she reached out and touched Casey 's hand .
cl18.20.1	post-adv	As she reached out and touched Casey 's hand the girl 's eyes were softly shining .
cl18.21.0	ref	`` Can I tell you a secret ?
cl18.21.1	dat-np-np	`` Can I tell a secret to you ?
cl18.24.0	ref	Casey kept his smile fixed , but some small inner disturbance was working on him as he thought again about Needham , who was eight or ten years older than the girl .
cl18.24.1	post-adv	Casey kept his smile fixed , but some small inner disturbance as he thought again about Needham , who was eight or ten years older than the girl was working on him .
cl18.28.0	ref	`` I 'll have to give it some thought '' , he said .
cl18.28.1	dat-np-np	`` I 'll have to give some thought to it '' , he said .
cl18.28.2	quote	`` I 'll have to give it some thought '' , said he .
cl18.32.0	ref	`` I 'll get my references in order '' , Needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused .
cl18.32.1	quote	`` I 'll get my references in order '' , said Needham , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused .
cl18.32.2	pre-adv	`` I 'll get my references in order '' , Needham said , and Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused , though he spoke with a smile .
cl18.36.0	ref	If you 're really serious about working on that story , I 'd better take you home '' .
cl18.36.1	pre-adv	I 'd better take you home , if you 're really serious about working on that story '' .
cl18.37.0	ref	Casey watched them go , still frowning absently and then dismissing the matter as he called for his check .
cl18.37.1	post-adv	Casey watched them go , as he called for his check still frowning absently and then dismissing the matter .
cl18.38.0	ref	As he went out he told Freddie the dinner was perfect , and when he got his hat and coat from Nancy Parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot , he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry .
cl18.38.1	pre-adv	He told Freddie the dinner was perfect as he went out , and when he got his hat and coat from Nancy Parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot , he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry .
cl18.38.2	pre-adv	As he went out he told Freddie the dinner was perfect , and he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry , when he got his hat and coat from Nancy Parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot .
cl18.40.0	ref	Because his mind had been otherwise occupied for the past couple of hours , he did not think to look and see if Jerry Burton 's car was still there .
cl18.40.1	pre-adv	He did not think to look and see if Jerry Burton 's car was still there , because his mind had been otherwise occupied for the past couple of hours .
cl18.41.0	ref	In fact , he did not think about Jerry Burton at all until he entered his living room and closed the door behind him .
cl18.41.1	post-adv	In fact , he until he entered his living room and closed the door behind him did not think about Jerry Burton at all .
cl18.41.2	post-adj2	In fact , he did not think at all about Jerry Burton until he entered his living room and closed the door behind him .
cl18.44.0	ref	Then he was striding across the room , his thoughts confused but the worry building swiftly inside him as he snatched up the note .
cl18.44.1	post-adv	Then he was striding across the room , his thoughts confused but as he snatched up the note the worry building swiftly inside him .
cl18.47.0	ref	The wastebasket stood near the wall next to the divan , and the instant Casey picked it up he knew what had happened .
cl18.47.1	post-adj2	The wastebasket stood next to the divan near the wall , and the instant Casey picked it up he knew what had happened .
cl18.51.0	ref	For another second or two he gave in to the annoyance that was directed at himself ; then his mind moved on to be confronted by something far more serious , and as the thought expanded , the implications jarred him .
cl18.51.1	pre-adv	For another second or two he gave in to the annoyance that was directed at himself ; then his mind moved on to be confronted by something far more serious , and the implications jarred him , as the thought expanded .
cl18.53.0	ref	The important thing was that Burton had gone somewhere to meet a blackmailer with a gun in his pocket .
cl18.53.1	post-adj2	The important thing was that Burton had gone with a gun in his pocket to meet a blackmailer somewhere .
cl18.55.0	ref	Even before his mind had rounded out the idea , he thrust one hand into his trousers pocket and pulled out the six slugs he had taken from the revolver .
cl18.55.1	pre-adv	He thrust one hand into his trousers pocket and pulled out the six slugs he had taken from the revolver , even before his mind had rounded out the idea .
cl18.56.0	ref	He considered them with brooding eyes , brows bunched as his brain grappled with the problem and tried to find some solution .
cl18.56.1	post-adv	He considered them with brooding eyes , as his brain grappled with the problem brows bunched and tried to find some solution .
cl18.58.0	ref	He put the shells on the table , as though he could no longer bear to hold them .
cl18.58.1	post-adv	As though he could no longer bear to hold them , he put the shells on the table .
cl18.61.0	ref	There was no answer to this and he began to pace back and forth across the room , his imagination out of control .
cl18.61.1	post-adj2	There was no answer to this and he began to pace across the room back and forth , his imagination out of control .
cl18.65.0	ref	Then , as he turned toward the telephone , it rang shrilly to shatter the stillness in the room and he reached for it eagerly .
cl18.65.1	pre-adv	Then it rang shrilly to shatter the stillness in the room , as he turned toward the telephone , and he reached for it eagerly .
cl18.70.0	ref	Casey heard the voice distinctly and he knew who it was , but it took him a while to make the mental readjustment and control the disturbance inside his head .
cl18.70.1	dat-np-np	Casey heard the voice distinctly and he knew who it was , but it took a while to him to make the mental readjustment and control the disturbance inside his head .
cl18.71.0	ref	When he heard Calenda say : `` What about that picture you took this afternoon '' ? It still took him another few seconds to remember the job he had done for Frank Ackerly .
cl18.71.1	dat-np-np	When he heard Calenda say : `` What about that picture you took this afternoon '' ? It still took another few seconds to him to remember the job he had done for Frank Ackerly .
cl18.71.2	pre-adv	It still took him another few seconds to remember the job he had done for Frank Ackerly when he heard Calenda say : `` What about that picture you took this afternoon '' .
cl18.73.0	ref	`` You took a picture of me at the corner of Washington and Blake about three thirty this afternoon '' .
cl18.73.1	dat-np-np	`` You took about three thirty this afternoon to a picture of me at the corner of Washington and Blake '' .
cl18.77.0	ref	Calenda was not the sort who walked around without one of his `` boys '' close at hand .
cl18.77.1	post-adv	Calenda was not the sort who without one of his `` boys '' close at hand walked around .
cl18.79.0	ref	`` With my trial coming up in Federal Court next week I would n't want that picture published '' .
cl18.79.1	post-adj2	`` With my trial coming up next week in Federal Court I would n't want that picture published '' .
cl18.82.0	ref	Under normal circumstances Casey was a little fussy when people told him what to do with pictures he had taken .
cl18.82.1	post-adv	When people told him what to do with pictures he had taken under normal circumstances Casey was a little fussy .
cl18.84.0	ref	Right now , however , he was still too worried about Jerry Burton , and the gun that had no bullets , and the story Burton had told him , to care too much about Tony Calenda .
cl18.84.1	pre-adj2	However , right now , he was still too worried about Jerry Burton , and the gun that had no bullets , and the story Burton had told him , to care too much about Tony Calenda .
cl18.94.0	ref	If that picture gets around and I find out you had anything to do with it , I 'm going to send a couple of my boys around to see you '' .
cl18.94.1	pre-adv	I 'm going to send a couple of my boys around to see you , if that picture gets around and I find out you had anything to do with it '' .
cl18.95.0	ref	`` You do that '' , Casey said .
cl18.95.1	quote	`` You do that '' , said Casey .
cl18.98.0	ref	As soon as he could think logically again he reached for the telephone directory and found Jerry Burton 's home number .
cl18.98.1	post-adj2	As soon as he could think again logically he reached for the telephone directory and found Jerry Burton 's home number .
cl18.99.0	ref	He dialed it and listened to it ring ten times before he hung up .
cl18.99.1	post-adv	He before he hung up dialed it and listened to it ring ten times .
cl18.101.0	ref	When he was told that no one had seen Burton since then , he thought of three other places that were possibilities .
cl18.101.1	pre-adv	He thought of three other places that were possibilities , when he was told that no one had seen Burton since then .
cl18.105.0	ref	And anyway Burton was not the kind of guy who would be likely to get in trouble even when he was drunk .
cl18.105.1	post-adv	And anyway Burton was not the kind of guy who would be likely even when he was drunk to get in trouble .
cl18.111.0	ref	He kept telling himself this as he went out to the kitchen to make a drink .
cl18.111.1	dat-np-np	He kept telling this to himself as he went out to the kitchen to make a drink .
cl18.111.2	post-adv	As he went out to the kitchen to make a drink he kept telling himself this .
cl18.115.0	ref	He had just finished unlacing the right one when the telephone rang again .
cl18.115.1	post-adv	He when the telephone rang again had just finished unlacing the right one .
cl18.116.0	ref	When he snatched it up the voice that came to him was quick and urgent .
cl18.116.1	pre-adv	The voice that came to him was quick and urgent when he snatched it up .
cl18.118.0	ref	If you want a picture get to the corner of Adams and Clark just as fast as you can .
cl18.118.1	pre-adv	Get to the corner of Adams and Clark just as fast as you can if you want a picture .
cl18.118.2	post-adj2	If you want a picture get just as fast as you can to the corner of Adams and Clark .
cl18.119.0	ref	If you hurry you might beat the headquarters boys '' .
cl18.119.1	pre-adv	You might beat the headquarters boys if you hurry '' .
cl18.120.0	ref	Casey heard the click of the distant receiver before he could open his mouth , and it took him no more than three seconds to make his decision .
cl18.120.1	dat-np-np	Casey heard the click of the distant receiver before he could open his mouth , and it took no more than three seconds to him to make his decision .
cl18.123.0	ref	Some telephoned because he had done them a favor in the past .
cl18.123.1	dat-np-np	Some telephoned because he had done a favor to them in the past .
cl18.123.2	post-adv	Because he had done them a favor in the past some telephoned .
cl18.125.0	ref	A few passed along a tip for the simple reason that they liked him and wanted to give him a break .
cl18.125.1	dat-np-np	A few passed along a tip for the simple reason that they liked him and wanted to give a break to him .
cl18.127.0	ref	He was in his car with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
cl18.127.1	dat-np-np	He was in his car with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes , and it took only three more to him to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
cl18.127.2	post-adj3	He was with his camera and equipment bag in his car in less than two minutes , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
cl18.127.3	post-adj3	He was in less than two minutes with his camera and equipment bag in his car , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
cl18.127.4	post-adj3	He was in his car in less than two minutes with his camera and equipment bag , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
cl18.127.5	post-adj3	He was in less than two minutes in his car with his camera and equipment bag , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
cl18.127.6	post-adj3	He was with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes in his car , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
cl18.128.0	ref	It was a district of small factories and loft buildings and occasional tenements , and he could see the police radio car as he rounded the corner and slammed on the brakes .
cl18.128.1	post-adv	It was a district of small factories and loft buildings and occasional tenements , and he as he rounded the corner and slammed on the brakes could see the police radio car .
cl18.129.0	ref	He did not bother with his radio -- there would be time for that later -- but as he scrambled out on the pavement he saw the filling station and the public telephone booth and knew instantly how he had been summoned .
cl18.129.1	pre-adv	He did not bother with his radio -- there would be time for that later -- but he saw the filling station and the public telephone booth and knew instantly how he had been summoned as he scrambled out on the pavement .
cl19.1.0	ref	Slowly he pulled out the hand throttle until the boat was moving at little more than a crawl , and watched Elaine rapidly spin from one station to another , tune in the null , then draw in a line on the chart .
cl19.1.1	post-adv	Slowly he until the boat was moving at little more than a crawl pulled out the hand throttle , and watched Elaine rapidly spin from one station to another , tune in the null , then draw in a line on the chart .
cl19.4.0	ref	Poet came in , raising his eyebrows appreciatively as he saw Elaine .
cl19.4.1	post-adv	Poet came in , as he saw Elaine raising his eyebrows appreciatively .
cl19.9.0	ref	The rock and roll music coming from the radio station suddenly faded as the boat coasted into the null on the .
cl19.9.1	post-adv	As the boat coasted into the null on the the rock and roll music coming from the radio station suddenly faded .
cl19.11.0	ref	A second later she came behind the wheel and backed off the anchor line until it was set in the ocean floor .
cl19.11.1	post-adv	A second later she until it was set in the ocean floor came behind the wheel and backed off the anchor line .
cl19.12.0	ref	She cut the engines and slowly the cruiser swung around on the end of its lines until its bow was pointing into the wind and the cockpit faced toward the shore .
cl19.12.1	post-adv	She cut the engines and until its bow was pointing into the wind and the cockpit faced toward the shore slowly the cruiser swung around on the end of its lines .
cl19.12.2	post-adj2	She cut the engines and slowly the cruiser swung on the end of its lines around until its bow was pointing into the wind and the cockpit faced toward the shore .
cl19.13.0	ref	Nick watched her somewhat enviously as she efficiently cut the engines , and started the auxiliary motor .
cl19.13.1	post-adv	As she efficiently cut the engines , and started the auxiliary motor Nick watched her somewhat enviously .
cl19.15.0	ref	The price tag hung from the belt and he pulled it off as he entered the chartroom and looked at it curiously .
cl19.15.1	post-adv	The price tag hung from the belt and he as he entered the chartroom pulled it off and looked at it curiously .
cl19.19.0	ref	There should be an excited conversation , for somewhere , directly below them , was a treasure lost for more than four hundred years .
cl19.19.1	post-adv	There , for somewhere , directly below them , was a treasure lost for more than four hundred years , should be an excited conversation .
cl19.21.0	ref	Once , in New York , he had gone flying with some friends in a small private airplane with a single engine .
cl19.21.1	pre-adj2	In New York , once , he had gone flying with some friends in a small private airplane with a single engine .
cl19.21.2	post-adj2	Once , in New York , he had gone flying in a small private airplane with a single engine with some friends .
cl19.22.0	ref	They had all been laughing , joking , when suddenly the engine had failed .
cl19.22.1	post-adv	They had all , when suddenly the engine had failed , been laughing , joking .
cl19.28.0	ref	There had been tension in the plane during the silent descent ; a tension similar to the one now .
cl19.28.1	post-adj2	There had been tension during the silent descent in the plane ; a tension similar to the one now .
cl19.30.0	ref	Now , at this moment , there should be none unless skin diving was much more dangerous than he had been led to believe .
cl19.30.1	pre-adj2	At this moment , now , there should be none unless skin diving was much more dangerous than he had been led to believe .
cl19.30.2	post-adv	Now , at this moment , there unless skin diving was much more dangerous than he had been led to believe should be none .
cl19.32.0	ref	The same taut-nerved relationship as there had been between the passengers on the plane now strained at the three of them here on the boat .
cl19.32.1	post-adj2	The same taut-nerved relationship as there had been between the passengers on the plane now strained here on the boat at the three of them .
cl19.33.0	ref	It hung over them like a cloud , its arrival as sudden as a cloud skidding over the sun .
cl19.33.1	post-adj2	It hung like a cloud over them , its arrival as sudden as a cloud skidding over the sun .
cl19.36.0	ref	Poet whistled softly as he looked at the gun .
cl19.36.1	post-adv	As he looked at the gun Poet whistled softly .
cl19.42.0	ref	`` And the deadliest '' , Poet commented as he buckled on his tank harness .
cl19.42.1	post-adv	`` And the deadliest '' , as he buckled on his tank harness Poet commented .
cl19.44.0	ref	`` It 's quite possible there 's more than codfish down there , man '' , Poet replied with a short , nervous laugh as he held the harness for Elaine .
cl19.44.1	post-adv	As he held the harness for Elaine `` it 's quite possible there 's more than codfish down there , man '' , Poet replied with a short , nervous laugh .
cl19.44.2	quote	`` It 's quite possible there 's more than codfish down there , man '' , replied Poet with a short , nervous laugh as he held the harness for Elaine .
cl19.45.0	ref	A moment later , moving awkwardly because of the swimming fins , she picked up the gun , handed the knife to Poet , then rolled off the transom of the boat , back first .
cl19.45.1	post-adj2	A moment later , moving because of the swimming fins awkwardly , she picked up the gun , handed the knife to Poet , then rolled off the transom of the boat , back first .
cl19.47.0	ref	Another moment and they were out of sight , leaving behind only a string of bubbles as a clue to their whereabouts .
cl19.47.1	post-adj2	Another moment and they were out of sight , leaving as a clue to their whereabouts only a string of bubbles behind .
cl19.50.0	ref	Eventually the bubbles became lost in the sparkle of the ocean surface , and he rolled over on his back .
cl19.50.1	post-adj2	Eventually the bubbles became lost in the sparkle of the ocean surface , and he rolled on his back over .
cl19.52.0	ref	There was nothing quite like being alone on a boat on the ocean .
cl19.52.1	post-adj2	There was nothing quite like being alone on the ocean on a boat .
cl19.54.0	ref	Next to the ocean , probably the loneliest spot was the desert .
cl19.54.1	pre-adj2	Probably , next to the ocean the loneliest spot was the desert .
cl19.55.0	ref	If Elaine 's uncle had stuck to this desire for aloneness , he probably would still be alive .
cl19.55.1	pre-adv	He probably would still be alive , if Elaine 's uncle had stuck to this desire for aloneness .
cl19.62.0	ref	That was a hell of a note , he thought .
cl19.62.1	quote	That was a hell of a note , thought he .
cl19.64.0	ref	If the character flying that thing had gone over San Clemente Island yesterday he would have had an eyeful .
cl19.64.1	pre-adv	He would have had an eyeful if the character flying that thing had gone over San Clemente Island yesterday .
cl19.64.2	post-adj2	If the character flying that thing had gone yesterday over San Clemente Island he would have had an eyeful .
cl19.66.0	ref	Behind it a cabin cruiser drifted crossways in the small ground-swell , a lone fisherman in the chair aft .
cl19.66.1	post-adj2	Behind it a cabin cruiser drifted in the small ground-swell crossways , a lone fisherman in the chair aft .
cl19.71.0	ref	Sometimes the fish exploded as they neared the surface because of the difference in pressure .
cl19.71.1	post-adv	As they neared the surface sometimes the fish exploded because of the difference in pressure .
cl19.74.0	ref	He stood up , stretched , looked around for the bubbles , but could see none .
cl19.74.1	post-adj2	He stood up , stretched , looked for the bubbles around , but could see none .
cl19.75.0	ref	Strolling down to the galley , he lit the butane under the coffee pot and when the brew was heated , poured himself a cup and went up to the chartroom .
cl19.75.1	post-adv	Strolling down to the galley , he , when the brew was heated , lit the butane under the coffee pot and poured himself a cup and went up to the chartroom .
cl19.76.0	ref	Turning on the hi-fi , he went back to the cockpit , stretched out on the cushions and listened to the music .
cl19.76.1	post-adj2	Turning on the hi-fi , he went to the cockpit back , stretched out on the cushions and listened to the music .
cl19.78.0	ref	He sat up and watched as they pulled themselves over the stern .
cl19.78.1	post-adv	He as they pulled themselves over the stern sat up and watched .
cl19.81.0	ref	`` We 're right on the edge of the Deep '' , Elaine said .
cl19.81.1	quote	`` We 're right on the edge of the Deep '' , said Elaine .
cl19.83.0	ref	`` Which is a break as the area to search is less than a square mile '' , she added as she swung her legs over the transom .
cl19.83.1	post-adv	`` Which as the area to search is less than a square mile is a break '' , she added as she swung her legs over the transom .
cl19.83.2	post-adv	As she swung her legs over the transom `` which is a break as the area to search is less than a square mile '' , she added .
cl19.88.0	ref	Elaine shook her head as she slipped out of her harness , but Poet nodded .
cl19.88.1	post-adv	As she slipped out of her harness Elaine shook her head , but Poet nodded .
cl19.89.0	ref	His feet still hung over the stern of the transom , but as he reached for the smoke he raised them to swing them in .
cl19.89.1	pre-adv	His feet still hung over the stern of the transom , but he raised them to swing them in as he reached for the smoke .
cl19.91.0	ref	His forearm smashed painfully into the narrow washboard and he grimaced as he grabbed his bruised limb with his other hand and rolled into the boat .
cl19.91.1	post-adv	His forearm smashed painfully into the narrow washboard and he as he grabbed his bruised limb with his other hand grimaced and rolled into the boat .
cl19.91.2	post-adj2	His forearm smashed into the narrow washboard painfully and he grimaced as he grabbed his bruised limb with his other hand and rolled into the boat .
cl19.93.0	ref	The word hissed distinctly from Poet 's lips as he struggled to his feet .
cl19.93.1	post-adv	As he struggled to his feet the word hissed distinctly from Poet 's lips .
cl19.93.2	post-adj2	The word hissed from Poet 's lips distinctly as he struggled to his feet .
cl19.97.0	ref	His face was still creased in pain as he studied the underside of his arm .
cl19.97.1	post-adv	His face as he studied the underside of his arm was still creased in pain .
cl19.105.0	ref	Elaine recovered first , so quickly that Nick thought he might have imagined her sudden reaction .
cl19.105.1	post-adj2	Elaine recovered so quickly that Nick thought he might have imagined her sudden reaction , first .
cl19.109.0	ref	`` It 's like banging a shin '' , he said , his eyes lingered on Nick 's face , then moved back to Elaine .
cl19.109.1	quote	`` It 's like banging a shin '' , said he , his eyes lingered on Nick 's face , then moved back to Elaine .
cl19.110.0	ref	`` Hurts like hell for a second , then it disappears '' .
cl19.110.1	post-adj2	`` Hurts for a second like hell , then it disappears '' .
cl19.118.0	ref	The gun fired next to his ear with a vicious whoosh like the first stroke of an old steam engine .
cl19.118.1	post-adj2	The gun fired with a vicious whoosh like the first stroke of an old steam engine next to his ear .
cl19.119.0	ref	At the same instant , Elaine screamed wildly , the sound ending abruptly as Nick went off the boat and into the water on top of the frantic , struggling Poet .
cl19.119.1	post-adv	At the same instant , Elaine screamed wildly , as Nick went off the boat and into the water on top of the frantic , struggling Poet the sound ending abruptly .
cl19.120.0	ref	The moment the sea closed over Nick , some atavistic sense warned him that he would survive in this alien element only if he did not panic .
cl19.120.1	post-adv	The moment the sea closed over Nick , some atavistic sense warned him that he only if he did not panic would survive in this alien element .
cl19.122.0	ref	The wide flippers on Poet 's feet gave his legs incredible power , driving the two of them down into the water as they rolled over and over .
cl19.122.1	dat-np-np	The wide flippers on Poet 's feet gave incredible power to his legs , driving the two of them down into the water as they rolled over and over .
cl19.122.2	post-adv	The wide flippers on Poet 's feet gave his legs incredible power , as they rolled over and over driving the two of them down into the water .
cl19.122.3	post-adj2	The wide flippers on Poet 's feet gave his legs incredible power , driving the two of them into the water down as they rolled over and over .
cl19.124.0	ref	Poet would escape , Nick thought grimly , because he wore the apparatus which would keep him alive under water .
cl19.124.1	post-adv	Poet because he wore the apparatus which would keep him alive under water would escape , Nick thought grimly .
cl19.128.0	ref	For a split second , Nick relaxed his grip and Poet 's slippery body spun completely around before Nick could stop him , holding him now from the rear .
cl19.128.1	post-adv	For a split second , Nick relaxed his grip and before Nick could stop him , holding him now from the rear Poet 's slippery body spun completely around .
cl19.129.0	ref	Something flailed at the side of Nick 's head as they rolled around and around .
cl19.129.1	post-adv	As they rolled around and around something flailed at the side of Nick 's head .
cl19.132.0	ref	A black , snake-like object swayed eerily in front of him , spewing bubbles from its flat cobra head .
cl19.132.1	post-adj2	A black , snake-like object swayed in front of him eerily , spewing bubbles from its flat cobra head .
cl19.139.0	ref	As if this was a signal , Poet abruptly began to thrash the water and the quick movement slowly made them sink through the water .
cl19.139.1	pre-adv	Poet abruptly began to thrash the water , as if this was a signal , and the quick movement slowly made them sink through the water .
cl20.1.0	ref	Harbor Point sticks out into the ocean like the fat neck of a steamer clam .
cl20.1.1	post-adj2	Harbor Point sticks like the fat neck of a steamer clam out into the ocean .
cl20.4.0	ref	Chief Bob Moore looked his same hick-self ; a man mountain running to lard in his middle-age .
cl20.4.1	post-adj2	Chief Bob Moore looked his same hick-self ; a man mountain running in his middle-age to lard .
cl20.9.0	ref	Took me 19 years to become Chief of our three man police force .
cl20.9.1	dat-np-np	Took 19 years to me to become Chief of our three man police force .
cl20.12.0	ref	`` I guess it helps '' , I said , paying no attention to his ribbing .
cl20.12.1	quote	`` I guess it helps '' , said , paying I no attention to his ribbing .
cl20.17.0	ref	Man , when my 275 pounds and six-four comes along , why it 's the same as another badge .
cl20.17.1	pre-adv	Man why it 's the same as another badge , when my 275 pounds and six-four comes along .
cl20.18.0	ref	When I say move , a guy moves '' !
cl20.18.1	pre-adv	A guy moves , when I say move '' !
cl20.25.0	ref	Came to the Harbor as a bride and Do n't worry Jed , this one is in the bag .
cl20.25.1	post-adj2	Came as a bride to the Harbor and Do n't worry Jed , this one is in the bag .
cl20.27.0	ref	`` Yeah , passed your road block as I drove in '' , I said , sitting on his polished desk .
cl20.27.1	post-adv	`` As I drove in yeah , passed your road block '' , I said , sitting on his polished desk .
cl20.27.2	quote	`` Yeah , passed your road block as I drove in '' , said , sitting I on his polished desk .
cl20.28.0	ref	Although Bob dressed like a slob , he kept a neat office .
cl20.28.1	pre-adv	He kept a neat office , although Bob dressed like a slob .
cl20.37.0	ref	Julia Buck , the deceased '' , Moore said , slipping me his smug , idiot-grin again .
cl20.37.1	dat-np-np	Julia Buck , the deceased '' , Moore said , slipping his smug , idiot-grin to me again .
cl20.38.0	ref	`` Julia asks me to come out at once .
cl20.38.1	post-adj2	`` Julia asks me to come at once out .
cl20.39.0	ref	But she did n't sound real alarmed you know , like there was any immediate danger .
cl20.39.1	post-adv	But she like there was any immediate danger did n't sound real alarmed you know .
cl20.40.0	ref	I got there at 9:47 A.M. , found her strangled .
cl20.40.1	post-adj2	I got at 9:47 A.M. there , found her strangled .
cl20.41.0	ref	I would have come sooner if I 'd known .
cl20.41.1	post-adv	I would if I 'd known have come sooner .
cl20.51.0	ref	Nellie was in the kitchen , had just come to work , when she heard Tim arguing with Julia in the living room .
cl20.51.1	post-adv	When she heard Tim arguing with Julia in the living room , Nellie was in the kitchen , had just come to work .
cl20.55.0	ref	Nellie went on with her house work -- until I found Julia dead .
cl20.55.1	post-adv	Until I found Julia dead -- Nellie went on with her house work .
cl20.56.0	ref	And before you say it , Nellie ai n't near strong enough to have strangled Julia .
cl20.56.1	pre-adv	And Nellie ai n't near strong enough to have strangled Julia , before you say it .
cl20.60.0	ref	Guess you want to see the body -- have her up the street in Doc Abel 's office '' .
cl20.60.1	post-adj2	Guess you want to see the body -- have her in Doc Abel 's office up the street '' .
cl20.65.0	ref	Doc Abel was busy up front with some of his live patients .
cl20.65.1	post-adj2	Doc Abel was busy with some of his live patients up front .
cl20.69.0	ref	Chief Moore shook his big head , seemed lost in thought as he stared at the nude body .
cl20.69.1	post-adv	Chief Moore as he stared at the nude body shook his big head , seemed lost in thought .
cl20.70.0	ref	Then he said , `` Never noticed it before I mean , when she was dressed but for a woman her age , Julia had a real fine figure '' .
cl20.70.1	post-adv	Then he said , `` when she was dressed , Never noticed it before I mean but for a woman her age , Julia had a real fine figure '' .
cl20.77.0	ref	`` Naw , we 'll use mine '' , Moore said , opening the door of a sleek white Jaguar roadster .
cl20.77.1	quote	`` Naw , we 'll use mine '' , said , opening Moore the door of a sleek white Jaguar roadster .
cl20.78.0	ref	As I slid in beside him he said , `` Some heap , hey ?
cl20.78.1	pre-adv	He said , `` Some heap , hey as I slid in beside him ?
cl20.78.2	post-adj2	As I slid beside him in he said , `` Some heap , hey ?
cl20.80.0	ref	`` Yeah , it 's a real load '' , I told him , looking up the street at my battered Ford .
cl20.80.1	quote	`` Yeah , it 's a real load '' , told him , looking I up the street at my battered Ford .
cl20.80.2	post-adj2	`` Yeah , it 's a real load '' , I told him , looking at my battered Ford up the street .
cl20.81.0	ref	Five racing minutes later we pulled into the driveway of this typical two-story house , and when the Jaguar stopped I managed to swallow .
cl20.81.1	pre-adv	Five racing minutes later we pulled into the driveway of this typical two-story house , and I managed to swallow when the Jaguar stopped .
cl20.84.0	ref	The fins of a Caddy were sticking out of the garage , while the inside of the house was a comfortable mixture of old and expensive contemporary furniture .
cl20.84.1	post-adv	The fins of a Caddy , while the inside of the house was a comfortable mixture of old and expensive contemporary furniture , were sticking out of the garage .
cl20.89.0	ref	The old gal stared at me with her hard eyes , said , `` She did n't call .
cl20.89.1	post-adj2	The old gal stared with her hard eyes at me , said , `` She did n't call .
cl20.91.0	ref	I went up stairs and did the bath and her bedroom -- way I always do in the morning '' .
cl20.91.1	dat-np-np	I went up stairs and did way I always do in the morning -- to the bath and her bedroom '' .
cl20.95.0	ref	Years ago when I asked her to put me in Social Security , so 's I would n't have to be working now , Miss Julia threatened to fire me -- all because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her '' .
cl20.95.1	post-adv	Years ago when I asked her , so 's I would n't have to be working now , to put me in Social Security , Miss Julia threatened to fire me -- all because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her '' .
cl20.95.2	post-adv	All because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her -- years ago when I asked her to put me in Social Security , so 's I would n't have to be working now , Miss Julia threatened to fire me '' .
cl20.95.3	pre-adv	Years ago Miss Julia threatened to fire me -- all because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her , when I asked her to put me in Social Security , so 's I would n't have to be working now '' .
cl20.99.0	ref	I drummed on the kitchen table with my pencil .
cl20.99.1	post-adj2	I drummed with my pencil on the kitchen table .
cl20.115.0	ref	We did 80 miles an hour across a hard dirt road to a cluster of shacks .
cl20.115.1	post-adj2	We did 80 miles an hour to a cluster of shacks across a hard dirt road .
cl20.118.0	ref	Mrs. Tim Williams was about 21 , with skin the color of bitter chocolate , and if you discounted the plain dress and worn slippers , she was startlingly pretty .
cl20.118.1	pre-adv	Mrs. Tim Williams was about 21 , with skin the color of bitter chocolate , and she was startlingly pretty , if you discounted the plain dress and worn slippers .
cl20.121.0	ref	She said she did n't know a thing -- Tim had left the house at six in the morning , as usual .
cl20.121.1	post-adj2	She said she did n't know a thing -- Tim had left the house as usual , at six in the morning .
cl20.123.0	ref	`` Did Mrs. Buck owe him any wages '' ? I asked .
cl20.123.1	dat-np-np	`` Did Mrs. Buck owe any wages to him '' ? I asked .
cl20.130.0	ref	`` We 'll get him soon , see what he says '' , Chief Moore cut in .
cl20.130.1	quote	`` We 'll get him soon , see what he says '' , cut Chief Moore in .
cl20.132.0	ref	`` Got us an old station wagon .
cl20.132.1	dat-np-np	`` Got an old station wagon to us .
cl20.139.0	ref	On my way out I told her , `` If you should eh just happen to see your husband , get him to give himself up .
cl20.139.1	post-adv	If you should eh just happen to see your husband , on my way out I told her , `` get him to give himself up .
cl20.139.2	pre-adv	On my way out I told her , `` get him to give himself up , if you should eh just happen to see your husband .
cl20.141.0	ref	Hiding out like this wo n't get him anything , except more trouble , or a bullet '' .
cl20.141.1	dat-np-np	Hiding out like this wo n't get anything , except more trouble , or a bullet to him '' .
cl20.143.0	ref	I 'll tell him -- if I see him '' .
cl20.143.1	post-adv	I -- if I see him -- 'll tell him '' .
cl20.144.0	ref	We made it back to the Harbor in less than four minutes .
cl20.144.1	post-adj3	We made it to the Harbor back in less than four minutes .
cl20.144.2	post-adj3	We made it in less than four minutes to the Harbor back .
cl20.144.3	post-adj3	We made it back in less than four minutes to the Harbor .
cl20.144.4	post-adj3	We made it , in less than four minutes , back to the Harbor .
cl20.144.5	post-adj3	We made it to the Harbor in less than four minutes back .
cl20.148.0	ref	Chief Moore said , `` If I do n't see you when I return , see you for certain at my road block , Inspector '' .
cl20.148.1	post-adv	If I do n't see you when I return , Chief Moore said , `` see you for certain at my road block , Inspector '' .
cl20.148.2	post-adv	Chief Moore said , `` If I when I return do n't see you , see you for certain at my road block , Inspector '' .
cl20.148.3	pre-adv	Chief Moore said , `` see you for certain at my road block , Inspector , if I do n't see you when I return '' .
cl20.148.4	post-adj2	Chief Moore said , `` If I do n't see you when I return , see you at my road block for certain , Inspector '' .
cl20.149.0	ref	I had a bowl of decent chowder , phoned the Doc and he said he 'd leave the death statements with his girl -- in a half hour .
cl20.149.1	post-adj2	I had a bowl of decent chowder , phoned the Doc and he said he 'd leave the death statements in a half hour -- with his girl .
cl20.159.0	ref	As I was walking back to the Police Station , which was in the same building with the City Hall and Post Office , I saw Mrs. Tim Williams sneaking into the back of my car .
cl20.159.1	pre-adv	I saw Mrs. Tim Williams sneaking into the back of my car , as I was walking back to the Police Station , which was in the same building with the City Hall and Post Office .
cl20.159.2	post-adj2	As I was walking to the Police Station , which was in the same building with the City Hall and Post Office back , I saw Mrs. Tim Williams sneaking into the back of my car .
cl20.160.0	ref	If she moved gracefully , she was clumsy at it .
cl20.160.1	pre-adv	She was clumsy at it , if she moved gracefully .
cl20.168.0	ref	I never saw him so anxious before '' , I said , lighting my pipe and offering her a cigarette .
cl20.168.1	dat-np-np	I never saw him so anxious before '' , I said , lighting my pipe and offering a cigarette to her .
cl20.168.2	quote	I never saw him so anxious before '' , said , lighting I my pipe and offering her a cigarette .
cl20.170.0	ref	You know where Tim is , do n't you , Mrs. Williams '' ?
cl20.170.1	dat-np-np	You know where Tim is , do n't Mrs. Williams , to you '' ?
cl20.171.0	ref	She puffed on the cigarette slowly , sitting slumped against the back seat ; did n't answer .
cl20.171.1	post-adj2	She puffed slowly on the cigarette , sitting slumped against the back seat ; did n't answer .
cl21.3.0	ref	Take the same train Diana Beauclerk took and get there at the same time .
cl21.3.1	post-adj2	Take the same train Diana Beauclerk took and get at the same time there .
cl21.12.0	ref	Once inside , keep your eyes open '' !
cl21.12.1	pre-adv	Keep your eyes open , once inside '' !
cl21.15.0	ref	`` The police will have gone over every square inch of the place with a fine-tooth comb .
cl21.15.1	post-adj2	`` The police will have gone with a fine-tooth comb over every square inch of the place .
cl21.18.0	ref	`` There 's always a chance they may have overlooked something '' , returned the chief .
cl21.18.1	iquote	`` There 's always a chance they may have overlooked something '' , the chief returned .
cl21.24.0	ref	Try to imagine you 're going to be murdered yourself -- between eleven p.m. and one a.m. the night you arrive '' .
cl21.24.1	post-adj2	Try to imagine you 're going to be murdered yourself -- the night you arrive between eleven p.m. and one a.m. '' .
cl21.36.0	ref	Two weeks ago she had gone west to Pearson City .
cl21.36.1	post-adj2	Two weeks ago she had gone to Pearson City west .
cl21.38.0	ref	So did the firm of lawyers who had got her the divorce , Kimball and Stacy .
cl21.38.1	dat-np-np	So did the firm of lawyers who had got the divorce to her , Kimball and Stacy .
cl21.40.0	ref	She telephoned the junior partner of her law firm , Martin Stacy , and asked him to call at her hotel that evening .
cl21.40.1	post-adj2	She telephoned the junior partner of her law firm , Martin Stacy , and asked him to call that evening at her hotel .
cl21.41.0	ref	At the time of her divorce Forbes had promised to pay her a lump sum in lieu of further alimony if she remarried .
cl21.41.1	dat-np-np	At the time of her divorce Forbes had promised to pay a lump sum to her in lieu of further alimony if she remarried .
cl21.41.2	post-adv	At the time of her divorce Forbes had promised if she remarried to pay her a lump sum in lieu of further alimony .
cl21.47.0	ref	No other visitor inquired for her that evening .
cl21.47.1	post-adj2	No other visitor inquired that evening for her .
cl21.48.0	ref	Next morning she was found dead in her suite with a bullet from a Colt revolver in her brain .
cl21.48.1	post-adj2	Next morning she was found dead with a bullet from a Colt revolver in her brain in her suite .
cl21.52.0	ref	When Alec finished reading he was sure that either Forbes or Stacy had killed Diana Beauclerk .
cl21.52.1	pre-adv	He was sure that either Forbes or Stacy had killed Diana Beauclerk when Alec finished reading .
cl21.57.0	ref	He studied the night clerk as a man measures an adversary .
cl21.57.1	post-adv	As a man measures an adversary he studied the night clerk .
cl21.68.0	ref	`` We have better rooms vacant now '' , he babbled .
cl21.68.1	quote	`` We have better rooms vacant now '' , babbled he .
cl21.78.0	ref	A man , lighting a match for his cigar , paused until the flame burned his fingers .
cl21.78.1	post-adv	Until the flame burned his fingers a man , lighting a match for his cigar , paused .
cl21.88.0	ref	`` Suppose you tell me the real reason '' , he drawled .
cl21.88.1	dat-np-np	`` Suppose you tell the real reason to me '' , he drawled .
cl21.94.0	ref	`` There is no story '' , he piped tremulously .
cl21.94.1	quote	`` There is no story '' , piped he tremulously .
cl21.97.0	ref	The stillness persisted as Alec followed a bellboy across the lobby to the elevator .
cl21.97.1	post-adv	As Alec followed a bellboy across the lobby to the elevator the stillness persisted .
cl21.97.2	post-adj2	The stillness persisted as Alec followed a bellboy to the elevator across the lobby .
cl21.106.0	ref	A few snowflakes sifted down through that theatrical red glow , languid as falling feathers .
cl21.106.1	post-adj2	A few snowflakes sifted through that theatrical red glow down , languid as falling feathers .
cl21.110.0	ref	Deal furniture with a mahogany finish was neatly arranged as if it stood in the window of a department store .
cl21.110.1	post-adv	Deal furniture with a mahogany finish as if it stood in the window of a department store was neatly arranged .
cl21.119.0	ref	`` Afraid you 'll lose your job if you do n't keep your mouth shut '' ?
cl21.119.1	post-adv	`` Afraid you if you do n't keep your mouth shut 'll lose your job '' ?
cl21.122.0	ref	If you want my advice , pack up and take the next train back to New York '' .
cl21.122.1	pre-adv	Pack up and take the next train back to New York , if you want my advice '' .
cl21.126.0	ref	But I would n't spend a night in here for a million bucks '' !
cl21.126.1	post-adj2	But I would n't spend a night for a million bucks in here '' !
cl21.128.0	ref	Alec gave him a tip and let him go .
cl21.128.1	dat-np-np	Alec gave a tip to him and let him go .
cl21.133.0	ref	As he ranged his belongings on the bureau he noticed a film of white dust on the dark surface of the wood beyond the linen cover .
cl21.133.1	pre-adv	He noticed a film of white dust on the dark surface of the wood beyond the linen cover , as he ranged his belongings on the bureau .
cl21.135.0	ref	Women did n't use white face powder nowadays , he recalled .
cl21.135.1	quote	Women did n't use white face powder nowadays , recalled he .
cl21.142.0	ref	It winked as steadily as a metronome -- on , off -- on , off .
cl21.142.1	post-adj3	It winked on , off -- as steadily as a metronome -- on , off .
cl21.142.2	post-adj3	It winked on , off -- on , off -- as steadily as a metronome .
cl21.145.0	ref	Yet suddenly he was wide-awake .
cl21.145.1	pre-adj2	Suddenly yet he was wide-awake .
cl21.156.0	ref	When the neon sign faded out , the shadow disappeared .
cl21.156.1	pre-adv	The shadow disappeared , when the neon sign faded out .
cl21.157.0	ref	When the neon sign flashed on , the shadow was still there .
cl21.157.1	pre-adv	The shadow was still there , when the neon sign flashed on .
cl21.157.2	post-adj2	When the neon sign flashed on , the shadow was there still .
cl21.165.0	ref	Before he could snap it on , a stinging blow caught him in the ribs .
cl21.165.1	pre-adv	A stinging blow caught him in the ribs , before he could snap it on .
cl21.166.0	ref	He lashed out blindly with his right .
cl21.166.1	post-adj2	He lashed out with his right blindly .
cl21.172.0	ref	Something heavy shook the floor as it dropped .
cl21.172.1	post-adv	As it dropped something heavy shook the floor .
cl21.173.0	ref	Alec waited a moment , on guard .
cl21.173.1	post-adj2	Alec waited on guard , a moment .
cl21.188.0	ref	Nor would he choose a respectable hotel as the scene for a killing when it would be so much safer to take his victim for a one-way ride on a lonely country road .
cl21.188.1	post-adv	When it would be so much safer to take his victim for a one-way ride on a lonely country road nor would he choose a respectable hotel as the scene for a killing .
cl22.7.0	ref	Without a tremor , `` God forbid '' ! He said , and went out and cut his throat in the cave near Granny Day 's swamp .
cl22.7.1	quote	Without a tremor , `` God forbid '' ! said , and went he out and cut his throat in the cave near Granny Day 's swamp .
cl22.10.0	ref	You must know what gets into people , even such as Red and Handley , before you can tell what comes out of them .
cl22.10.1	post-adv	You , before you can tell what comes out of them , must know what gets into people , even such as Red and Handley .
cl22.14.0	ref	Red and Handley , God help them , knew the old Dogtown lore ; and I knew they knew it , for I 'd told them a lot of it .
cl22.14.1	dat-np-np	Red and Handley , God help them , knew the old Dogtown lore ; and I knew they knew it , for I 'd told a lot of it to them .
cl22.15.0	ref	And is n't it true that you get a deeper perception about a man and his motives when you know what it is he knows ?
cl22.15.1	post-adv	And is n't it true that when you know what it is he knows you get a deeper perception about a man and his motives ?
cl22.17.0	ref	You know the facts ; they are set forth in your own newspapers .
cl22.17.1	post-adj2	You know the facts ; they are set in your own newspapers forth .
cl22.21.0	ref	There is an inwardness and a luster to old furniture -LRB- look at that mahogany highboy behind you -RRB- which has a provocative emanation , if I may say so .
cl22.21.1	post-adv	If I may say so , there is an inwardness and a luster to old furniture -LRB- look at that mahogany highboy behind you -RRB- which has a provocative emanation .
cl22.25.0	ref	When you hold the spirit of a thing , then somehow you know the truth -- you know a fake antique from the real thing .
cl22.25.1	pre-adv	Then somehow you know the truth , when you hold the spirit of a thing -- you know a fake antique from the real thing .
cl22.27.0	ref	Now , Dogtown is one of those places that creeps into the marrow as worms get into old wood , under the veneer .
cl22.27.1	post-adv	Now , Dogtown is one of those places that as worms get into old wood , under the veneer creeps into the marrow .
cl22.30.0	ref	There were no witch burnings here because everyone had a witch in the family .
cl22.30.1	post-adv	Because everyone had a witch in the family there were no witch burnings here .
cl22.31.0	ref	Just think of old Granther Stannard who pulled the teeth of Dark Younger -LRB- her real name was Dorcas -RRB- , and because he bungled the job and left two protruding tusks she put such a hex on him that he thought his legs were made of glass .
cl22.31.1	pre-adv	Just think of old Granther Stannard who pulled the teeth of Dark Younger -LRB- her real name was Dorcas -RRB- , and she put such a hex on him that he thought his legs were made of glass because he bungled the job and left two protruding tusks .
cl22.37.0	ref	We 'll walk up there later .
cl22.37.1	post-adj2	We 'll walk later up there .
cl22.39.0	ref	And not one single dwelling left there , though once , in the early eighteenth century , there were close to a hundred houses .
cl22.39.1	pre-adj2	And not one single dwelling left there , though in the early eighteenth century , once , there were close to a hundred houses .
cl22.39.2	post-adv	Though once , in the early eighteenth century , there were close to a hundred houses , and not one single dwelling left there .
cl22.42.0	ref	Even I can remember nothing but ruined cellars and tumbled pillars , and nobody has lived there in the memory of any living man .
cl22.42.1	post-adj2	Even I can remember nothing but ruined cellars and tumbled pillars , and nobody has lived in the memory of any living man there .
cl22.43.0	ref	It is now a sweep of boulders and ledges , with oak , walnut and sumac creeping across the common , and everywhere the ruins and the long , long shadows .
cl22.43.1	post-adj2	It is with oak , walnut and sumac creeping across the common a sweep of boulders and ledges , now , and everywhere the ruins and the long , long shadows .
cl22.47.0	ref	Both Red McIver and Handley Walker lived nearby , almost as near as I do .
cl22.47.1	post-adj2	Both Red McIver and Handley Walker lived almost as near as I do , nearby .
cl22.51.0	ref	Well , anyhow , Dogtown Common is so much off the beaten track nowadays that only Sunday picnickers still stray up there , from time to time .
cl22.51.1	post-adj2	Well , anyhow , Dogtown Common is so much off the beaten track nowadays that only Sunday picnickers still stray from time to time , up there .
cl22.55.0	ref	As I said , they were both painters .
cl22.55.1	pre-adv	They were both painters , as I said .
cl22.56.0	ref	They 'd come , separately , to Gloucester some twenty years ago -- there 's always been an artists ' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here .
cl22.56.1	post-adj3	They 'd come , to Gloucester , separately some twenty years ago -- there 's always been an artists ' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here .
cl22.56.2	post-adj3	They 'd come , some twenty years ago , to Gloucester separately -- there 's always been an artists ' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here .
cl22.56.3	post-adj3	They 'd come , separately , some twenty years ago to Gloucester -- there 's always been an artists ' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here .
cl22.56.4	post-adj3	They 'd come , some twenty years ago separately , to Gloucester -- there 's always been an artists ' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here .
cl22.56.5	post-adj3	They 'd come to Gloucester some twenty years ago , separately -- there 's always been an artists ' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here .
cl22.65.0	ref	Why , that 's what gave me the feeling , gave me as-it-were the spirit , the demoniac , evil spirit of this whole affair .
cl22.65.1	dat-np-np	Why , that 's what gave the feeling to me , gave me as-it-were the spirit , the demoniac , evil spirit of this whole affair .
cl22.65.2	dat-np-np	Why , that 's what gave me the feeling , gave the spirit , the demoniac , evil spirit of this whole affair as-it-were to me .
cl22.71.0	ref	As I was saying , I 've known all about the old records , including the old Norberg deed .
cl22.71.1	pre-adv	I 've known all about the old records , including the old Norberg deed , as I was saying .
cl22.74.0	ref	He was courteous and casual about it , as though it were of no consequence .
cl22.74.1	post-adv	As though it were of no consequence , he was courteous and casual about it .
cl22.75.0	ref	He 's always like that , in spite of being a big man .
cl22.75.1	post-adj2	He 's in spite of being a big man like that , always .
cl22.76.0	ref	-LRB- When you see him , you 'll notice his habit of fingering , I might almost say , stroking a large mole with black hairs on it , by his right temple . -RRB-
cl22.76.1	pre-adv	You 'll notice his habit of fingering , I might almost say , stroking a large mole with black hairs on it , by his right temple -LRB- when you see him . -RRB-
cl22.86.0	ref	When I told him someone had torn it out , he shouted .
cl22.86.1	pre-adv	He shouted , when I told him someone had torn it out .
cl22.99.0	ref	Both men knew it was in the Norberg family holdings , but to which of the cousins did it belong , Anta or Freya ?
cl22.99.1	dat-np-np	Both men knew it was in the Norberg family holdings , but to which of the cousins did Anta or Freya belong , to it ?
cl22.103.0	ref	After the usual Honorable Sirs , it went on to say that there had been set off to the widow one full third part of the real estate of the deceased Salu Norberg , one lower room , on the Western side , privileges to the well and bake-oven and to one third of the cellar -LRB- I can show you the cellar when we go up -RRB- , also one Cow Right , and lastly they set off to the widow her own land that she brought with her as dower , namely the Beech Pasture .
cl22.103.1	dat-np-np	After the usual Honorable Sirs , it went on to say that there had been set off to the widow one full third part of the real estate of the deceased Salu Norberg , one lower room , on the Western side , privileges to the well and bake-oven and to one third of the cellar -LRB- I can show the cellar to you when we go up -RRB- , also one Cow Right , and lastly they set off to the widow her own land that she brought with her as dower , namely the Beech Pasture .
cl22.103.2	post-adv	After the usual Honorable Sirs , it went on to say that there had been set off to the widow one full third part of the real estate of the deceased Salu Norberg , one lower room , on the Western side , privileges to the well and bake-oven and to one third of the cellar -LRB- I when we go up can show you the cellar -RRB- , also one Cow Right , and lastly they set off to the widow her own land that she brought with her as dower , namely the Beech Pasture .
cl22.105.0	ref	I wish you could have seen the crests fall on these two sparring coxcombs when I told them that obviously the pasture belonged to their wives jointly .
cl22.105.1	post-adv	I wish you could have when I told them that obviously the pasture belonged to their wives jointly seen the crests fall on these two sparring coxcombs .
cl22.114.0	ref	If Red had a show at Gloucester , Handley would hurry to hang his pictures in Rockport .
cl22.114.1	pre-adv	Handley would hurry to hang his pictures in Rockport , if Red had a show at Gloucester .
cl22.119.0	ref	Yet with all this knowledge I had nothing of substance to unravel our case , as you would call it , till yesterday .
cl22.119.1	pre-adj2	With all this knowledge yet I had nothing of substance to unravel our case , as you would call it , till yesterday .
cl22.120.0	ref	One month ago , on the 20th of October , was the opening of the gunning season in Massachusetts .
cl22.120.1	pre-adj2	On the 20th of October , one month ago , was the opening of the gunning season in Massachusetts .
cl22.128.0	ref	I suppose these absences gave her more clearance for her embraces with Cousin Handley .
cl22.128.1	dat-np-np	I suppose these absences gave more clearance for her embraces with Cousin Handley to her .
cl22.129.0	ref	Anyhow , I was n't surprised , early that morning , to see Handley himself crossing from Dogtown Common Road to the Back Road .
cl22.129.1	post-adj2	Anyhow , I was n't surprised , early that morning , to see Handley himself crossing to the Back Road from Dogtown Common Road .
cl22.131.0	ref	It would have been a good excuse for his being there at all .
cl22.131.1	post-adj2	It would have been a good excuse for his being at all there .
cl22.132.0	ref	I myself had been up there by seven o'clock , after mushrooms , since there 'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass .
cl22.132.1	post-adv	I myself , since there 'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass , had been up there by seven o'clock , after mushrooms .
cl22.132.2	post-adj3	I myself had been by seven o'clock up there , after mushrooms , since there 'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass .
cl22.132.3	post-adj3	I myself had been after mushrooms by seven o'clock , up there , since there 'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass .
cl22.132.4	post-adj3	I myself had been up there after mushrooms , by seven o'clock , since there 'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass .
cl22.132.5	post-adj3	I myself had been , after mushrooms , up there by seven o'clock since there 'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass .
cl22.132.6	post-adj3	I myself had been by seven o'clock , after mushrooms up there , since there 'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass .
cl23.2.0	ref	Haney peered doubtfully at his drinking companion through bleary , tear-filled eyes .
cl23.2.1	post-adj3	Haney peered at his drinking companion doubtfully through bleary , tear-filled eyes .
cl23.2.2	post-adj3	Haney peered through bleary , tear-filled eyes at his drinking companion doubtfully .
cl23.2.3	post-adj3	Haney peered doubtfully through bleary , tear-filled eyes at his drinking companion .
cl23.2.4	post-adj3	Haney peered through bleary , tear-filled eyes doubtfully at his drinking companion .
cl23.2.5	post-adj3	Haney peered at his drinking companion through bleary , tear-filled eyes doubtfully .
cl23.5.0	ref	But his new-found buddy had matched him drink for drink until he lost count , and the man 's eyes were still clear .
cl23.5.1	post-adv	But his new-found buddy until he lost count had matched him drink for drink , and the man 's eyes were still clear .
cl23.6.0	ref	The guy is off his rocker , Haney thought to himself , and looked away from those eyes .
cl23.6.1	quote	The guy is off his rocker , thought Haney to himself , and looked away from those eyes .
cl23.13.0	ref	The stranger , his head seemingly sunk in thought , started to cross the street against the light just as a huge moving van roared through the intersection .
cl23.13.1	post-adv	The stranger , his head seemingly sunk in thought , started just as a huge moving van roared through the intersection to cross the street against the light .
cl23.14.0	ref	Brakes howled and a horn blared furiously , but the man would have been hit if Phil had n't called out to him a second before .
cl23.14.1	post-adv	Brakes howled and a horn blared furiously , but the man would have if Phil had n't called out to him a second before been hit .
cl23.15.0	ref	His shout had been involuntary , something anybody might have done without thinking , on the spur of the moment .
cl23.15.1	post-adj2	His shout had been involuntary , something anybody might have done on the spur of the moment , without thinking .
cl23.16.0	ref	As a matter of fact , he would n't have cared at all if the guy had been hit .
cl23.16.1	post-adv	As a matter of fact , he would n't if the guy had been hit have cared at all .
cl23.17.0	ref	Actually , he regretted having opened his mouth when the truck came to a stop and the angry driver jumped down from the cab and walked back toward them .
cl23.17.1	post-adv	When the truck came to a stop and the angry driver jumped down from the cab and walked back toward them actually , he regretted having opened his mouth .
cl23.18.0	ref	By then , the stranger was thanking Haney profusely and had one arm around his shoulders as if he were an old friend .
cl23.18.1	post-adv	By then , the stranger as if he were an old friend was thanking Haney profusely and had one arm around his shoulders .
cl23.19.0	ref	So the driver started to curse at both of them as if they had been in a plot together to ruin his safe-driving record .
cl23.19.1	post-adv	So the driver started as if they had been in a plot together to ruin his safe-driving record to curse at both of them .
cl23.20.0	ref	Then the man he saved turned and looked squarely into the truck driver 's face , without saying a word .
cl23.20.1	post-adj2	Then the man he saved turned and looked without saying a word , squarely into the truck driver 's face .
cl23.22.0	ref	Haney had n't given it much thought at the time .
cl23.22.1	dat-np-np	Haney had n't given much thought to it at the time .
cl23.25.0	ref	When the light went their way , they went on across the street .
cl23.25.1	pre-adv	They went on across the street , when the light went their way .
cl23.26.0	ref	And when the stranger found out that Phil was on the way to one of his favorite bars , he insisted on offering to buy drinks for both of them .
cl23.26.1	pre-adv	And he insisted on offering to buy drinks for both of them , when the stranger found out that Phil was on the way to one of his favorite bars .
cl23.28.0	ref	But he decided he would n't mind company in return for free drinks , even though he made good money at his job .
cl23.28.1	post-adv	But he decided he , even though he made good money at his job , would n't mind company in return for free drinks .
cl23.32.0	ref	When he finally got the coughing under control , he realized that Pete -LRB- all he gave was his first name -RRB- was still waiting for an answer -- he did n't even seem to wink as he continued to stare .
cl23.32.1	post-adv	When he finally got the coughing under control , he realized that Pete -LRB- all he gave was his first name -RRB- was still waiting for an answer -- he did n't even seem as he continued to stare to wink .
cl23.32.2	pre-adv	He realized that Pete -LRB- all he gave was his first name -RRB- was still waiting for an answer -- he did n't even seem to wink as he continued to stare , when he finally got the coughing under control .
cl23.40.0	ref	I might have got hit by that truck if it was n't for you .
cl23.40.1	post-adv	I might have if it was n't for you got hit by that truck .
cl23.43.0	ref	It wo n't cost you a cent , Phil .
cl23.43.1	dat-np-np	It wo n't cost a cent to you , Phil .
cl23.49.0	ref	`` All right '' , he conceded finally , `` if you must know , I do n't get along with the landlord .
cl23.49.1	pre-adv	`` All right '' , he conceded finally , I do n't get along with the landlord `` if you must know .
cl23.50.0	ref	He keeps riding me because I like to listen to the radio and sing while I 'm taking a bath .
cl23.50.1	post-adv	He keeps because I like to listen to the radio and sing while I 'm taking a bath riding me .
cl23.50.2	post-adv	He keeps riding me because I like while I 'm taking a bath to listen to the radio and sing .
cl23.54.0	ref	When he looked up again , he seemed almost contented .
cl23.54.1	post-adj2	When he looked again up , he seemed almost contented .
cl23.56.0	ref	Give me your address .
cl23.56.1	dat-np-np	Give your address to me .
cl23.66.0	ref	Five minutes later , before Haney could make his break , the stranger stood up and nodded farewell .
cl23.66.1	pre-adj2	Before Haney could make his break , five minutes later , the stranger stood up and nodded farewell .
cl23.76.0	ref	Of course On Thursday , Haney mailed the monthly check for separate maintenance to his wife Lolly , and wished the stranger could do something about her
cl23.76.1	pre-adj2	On Thursday of course , Haney mailed the monthly check for separate maintenance to his wife Lolly , and wished the stranger could do something about her
cl23.85.0	ref	He muttered something about how terrible it was , and walked with deliberate slowness to the elevator .
cl23.85.1	post-adj2	He muttered something about how terrible it was , and walked to the elevator with deliberate slowness .
cl23.100.0	ref	He had been sitting in the usual corner at the little table , as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes .
cl23.100.1	post-adj3	He had been sitting at the little table in the usual corner , as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes .
cl23.100.2	post-adj3	He had been sitting as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes at the little table , in the usual corner .
cl23.100.3	post-adj3	He had been sitting in the usual corner as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes , at the little table .
cl23.100.4	post-adj3	He had been sitting , as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes , in the usual corner at the little table .
cl23.100.5	post-adj3	He had been sitting at the little table , as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes in the usual corner .
cl23.107.0	ref	He looked up with bloodshot eyes and beheld the stranger sitting across the table , smiling a secret smile at him , as if they were fellow conspirators .
cl23.107.1	post-adj2	He looked with bloodshot eyes up and beheld the stranger sitting across the table , smiling a secret smile at him , as if they were fellow conspirators .
cl23.111.0	ref	He began to wish that he had n't shouted that other evening when the truck bore down through the crossing .
cl23.111.1	post-adj2	He began to wish that he had n't shouted that other evening when the truck bore through the crossing down .
cl23.112.0	ref	Was he going to be saddled from now on with a creep for a bar-buddy ?
cl23.112.1	post-adj2	Was he going to be saddled with a creep for a bar-buddy from now on ?
cl23.121.0	ref	In time , and two drinks later , he was complaining bitterly about his wife , He was on the subject for ten minutes or so when he noticed the renewed interest in his listener -- it showed in the alert face and the suddenly bright eyes .
cl23.121.1	post-adj2	In time , and two drinks later , he was complaining about his wife bitterly , He was on the subject for ten minutes or so when he noticed the renewed interest in his listener -- it showed in the alert face and the suddenly bright eyes .
cl23.124.0	ref	If she runs around with other men , and if you hate her as you say , why not just divorce her '' ?
cl23.124.1	post-adj2	If she runs with other men around , and if you hate her as you say , why not just divorce her '' ?
cl23.134.0	ref	You must understand , I have n't been in this state too long .
cl23.134.1	post-adj2	You must understand , I have n't been too long in this state .
cl23.137.0	ref	You should have told me about her before '' .
cl23.137.1	post-adj2	You should have told me before about her '' .
cl24.3.0	ref	I went through and down , into pitch darkness .
cl24.3.1	post-adj2	I went into pitch darkness , through and down .
cl24.5.0	ref	I 'll pull the boards back and then get us a light .
cl24.5.1	dat-np-np	I 'll pull the boards back and then get a light to us .
cl24.10.0	ref	I looked back over my shoulder while I went to join him ; he 'd hung another half of a blanket over the boarded window so no light would show through .
cl24.10.1	post-adj2	I looked over my shoulder back while I went to join him ; he 'd hung another half of a blanket over the boarded window so no light would show through .
cl24.17.0	ref	Could he join the party and sleep here tonight too ?
cl24.17.1	post-adj2	Could he join the party and sleep too tonight here ?
cl24.22.0	ref	I took a short swallow from it myself and handed it to him .
cl24.22.1	dat-np-np	I took myself from it to a short swallow and handed it to him .
cl24.30.0	ref	On the way I 'll give you the scoop '' .
cl24.30.1	dat-np-np	On the way I 'll give the scoop to you '' .
cl24.31.0	ref	On the way I gave him the scoop .
cl24.31.1	dat-np-np	On the way I gave the scoop to him .
cl24.35.0	ref	I was reminded , amusedly , by a poem of Kenneth Patchen 's called The Murder of Two Men by a Young Kid Wearing Lemon Colored Gloves , which Patchen himself read on a record against jazz background .
cl24.35.1	post-adj2	I was reminded , by a poem of Kenneth Patchen 's called The Murder of Two Men by a Young Kid Wearing Lemon Colored Gloves , which Patchen himself read on a record against jazz background , amusedly .
cl24.45.0	ref	He had a capacity ; if we 'd really been trying to get him dead drunk we 'd have had to go out for more wine .
cl24.45.1	post-adj2	He had a capacity ; if we 'd really been trying to get him dead drunk we 'd have had to go for more wine out .
cl24.46.0	ref	About halfway through the second bottle , Charlie looked at me across Pops , who was sitting between us and asked `` Now '' ?
cl24.46.1	post-adj2	About halfway through the second bottle , Charlie looked across Pops , who was sitting between us at me and asked `` Now '' ?
cl24.47.0	ref	I said , `` Wait '' , and handed the bottle to Pops for his final drink .
cl24.47.1	post-adj2	I said , `` Wait '' , and handed the bottle for his final drink to Pops .
cl24.66.0	ref	All right , now I 'll give you a hand '' .
cl24.66.1	dat-np-np	All right , now I 'll give a hand to you '' .
cl24.69.0	ref	`` Let 's put him down again the way he was .
cl24.69.1	post-adj2	`` Let 's put him again down the way he was .
cl24.79.0	ref	But let 's not talk about it abstractly until we 're out of here .
cl24.79.1	post-adj2	But let 's not talk abstractly about it until we 're out of here .
cl24.108.0	ref	Being picked up for questioning by a cop on the way out seemed to be the only possible remaining danger , and we were n't picked up by a cop .
cl24.108.1	post-adj3	Being picked up by a cop for questioning on the way out seemed to be the only possible remaining danger , and we were n't picked up by a cop .
cl24.108.2	post-adj3	Being picked up on the way out by a cop for questioning seemed to be the only possible remaining danger , and we were n't picked up by a cop .
cl24.108.3	post-adj3	Being picked up for questioning on the way out by a cop seemed to be the only possible remaining danger , and we were n't picked up by a cop .
cl24.108.4	post-adj3	Being picked up on the way out for questioning by a cop seemed to be the only possible remaining danger , and we were n't picked up by a cop .
cl24.108.5	post-adj3	Being picked up by a cop on the way out for questioning seemed to be the only possible remaining danger , and we were n't picked up by a cop .
cl24.123.0	ref	I 'd tell him everything I 'd learned about Seaton 's habits and habitat , and he 'd tell me the score on Radic .
cl24.123.1	dat-np-np	I 'd tell everything I 'd learned about Seaton 's habits and habitat to him , and he 'd tell me the score on Radic .
cl24.123.2	dat-np-np	I 'd tell him everything I 'd learned about Seaton 's habits and habitat , and he 'd tell the score on Radic to me .
cl24.124.0	ref	We made the date for two o'clock in the afternoon at Maxine Wells 's pad .
cl24.124.1	post-adj2	We made the date at Maxine Wells 's pad for two o'clock in the afternoon .
cl24.125.0	ref	Charlie would get there early because he had the key .
cl24.125.1	post-adj2	Charlie would get early there because he had the key .
cl24.126.0	ref	From here on in , the less Charlie and I were seen together in public , or visited one another 's rooms , the better .
cl24.126.1	post-adj2	From here on in , the less Charlie and I were seen in public together , or visited one another 's rooms , the better .
cl24.127.0	ref	I was dead tired and slept soundly , as far as I know dreamlessly .
cl24.127.1	post-adj3	I was dead tired and slept as far as I know , soundly dreamlessly .
cl24.127.2	post-adj3	I was dead tired and slept dreamlessly , as far as I know soundly .
cl24.127.3	post-adj3	I was dead tired and slept soundly , dreamlessly as far as I know .
cl24.127.4	post-adj3	I was dead tired and slept dreamlessly soundly , as far as I know .
cl24.127.5	post-adj3	I was dead tired and slept as far as I know dreamlessly , soundly .
cl24.131.0	ref	I talked first , telling him everything I knew about Seaton and his house and domestic arrangements .
cl24.131.1	dat-np-np	I talked first , telling everything I knew about Seaton and his house and domestic arrangements to him .
cl24.133.0	ref	He gave me equivalent and even more detailed dope on Radic , including diagrams -- one of the apartment building Radic lived in and one of the apartment itself .
cl24.133.1	dat-np-np	He gave equivalent and even more detailed dope on Radic , including diagrams -- one of the apartment building Radic lived in and one of the apartment itself to me .
cl24.146.0	ref	If you draw the short straw I 'll lend you some bread , like fifty bucks , before I take off to visit my sister in Frisco .
cl24.146.1	dat-np-np	If you draw the short straw I 'll lend some bread to you , like fifty bucks , before I take off to visit my sister in Frisco .
cm01.4.0	ref	Mike remained in trance ; there was much to grok , loose ends to puzzle over and fit into his growing -- all that he had seen and heard and been at the Archangel Foster Tabernacle -LRB- not just cusp when he and Digby had come face to face alone -RRB- why Bishop Senator Boone made him warily uneasy , how Miss Dawn Ardent tasted like a water brother when she was not , the smell of goodness he had incompletely grokked in the jumping up and down and wailing -- Jubal 's conversations coming and going -- Jubal 's words troubled him most ; he studied them , compared them with what he had been taught as a nestling , struggling to bridge between languages , the one he thought with and the one he was learning to think in .
cm01.4.1	post-adv	Mike remained in trance ; there was much to grok , loose ends to puzzle over and fit into his growing -- all that he had seen and heard and been at the Archangel Foster Tabernacle -LRB- not just cusp when he and Digby had come face to face alone -RRB- why Bishop Senator Boone made him warily uneasy , how when she was not Miss Dawn Ardent tasted like a water brother , the smell of goodness he had incompletely grokked in the jumping up and down and wailing -- Jubal 's conversations coming and going -- Jubal 's words troubled him most ; he studied them , compared them with what he had been taught as a nestling , struggling to bridge between languages , the one he thought with and the one he was learning to think in .
cm01.5.0	ref	The word `` church '' which turned up over and over again among Jubal 's words gave him knotty difficulty ; there was no Martian concept to match it -- unless one took `` church '' and `` worship '' and `` God '' and `` congregation '' and many other words and equated them to the totality of the only world he had known during growing-waiting then forced the concept back into English in that phrase which had been rejected -LRB- by each differently -RRB- by Jubal , by Mahmoud , by Digby .
cm01.5.1	dat-np-np	The word `` church '' which turned up over and over again among Jubal 's words gave knotty difficulty to him ; there was no Martian concept to match it -- unless one took `` church '' and `` worship '' and `` God '' and `` congregation '' and many other words and equated them to the totality of the only world he had known during growing-waiting then forced the concept back into English in that phrase which had been rejected -LRB- by each differently -RRB- by Jubal , by Mahmoud , by Digby .
cm01.5.2	post-adv	The word `` church '' which turned up over and over again among Jubal 's words gave him knotty difficulty ; unless one took `` church '' and `` worship '' and `` God '' and `` congregation '' and many other words and equated them to the totality of the only world he had known during growing-waiting then forced the concept back into English in that phrase which had been rejected -LRB- by each differently -RRB- by Jubal , by Mahmoud , by Digby -- there was no Martian concept to match it .
cm01.5.3	post-adj2	The word `` church '' which turned up among Jubal 's words over and over again gave him knotty difficulty ; there was no Martian concept to match it -- unless one took `` church '' and `` worship '' and `` God '' and `` congregation '' and many other words and equated them to the totality of the only world he had known during growing-waiting then forced the concept back into English in that phrase which had been rejected -LRB- by each differently -RRB- by Jubal , by Mahmoud , by Digby .
cm01.7.0	ref	He was closer to understanding it in English now , although it could never have the inevitability of the Martian concept it stood for .
cm01.7.1	post-adv	Although it could never have the inevitability of the Martian concept it stood for , he was closer to understanding it in English now .
cm01.21.0	ref	Ben and Stinky went home an hour ago and people started going to bed '' .
cm01.21.1	post-adj2	Ben and Stinky went an hour ago home and people started going to bed '' .
cm01.38.0	ref	As for the night being warm , he would have been comfortable naked on Mount Everest but his water brothers had little tolerance for changes in temperature and pressure ; he was considerate of their weakness , once he learned of it .
cm01.38.1	post-adv	As for the night being warm , he would have been comfortable naked on Mount Everest but his water brothers had little tolerance for changes in temperature and pressure ; once he learned of it , he was considerate of their weakness .
cm01.39.0	ref	But he was looking forward to snow -- seeing for himself that each tiny crystal of the water of life was a unique individual , as he had read -- walking barefoot , rolling in it .
cm01.39.1	post-adj2	But he was looking to snow -- seeing for himself that each tiny crystal of the water of life was a unique individual , as he had read -- walking barefoot , rolling in it forward .
cm01.58.0	ref	But my people -- Martians , I mean ; I now grok you are my people -- teach plants another way .
cm01.58.1	dat-np-np	But my people -- Martians , I mean ; I now grok you are my people -- teach another way to plants .
cm01.63.0	ref	Mike had not heard it ; he had not known it until asked .
cm01.63.1	post-adv	Mike had not heard it ; he until asked had not known it .
cm01.73.0	ref	`` At first I was homesick '' , he answered .
cm01.73.1	quote	`` At first I was homesick '' , answered he .
cm01.85.0	ref	A long time later , by cosmic clock , she said , `` Mike ?
cm01.85.1	pre-adj2	By cosmic clock , a long time later , she said , `` Mike ?
cm01.92.0	ref	As they merged , grokking together , Mike said softly and triumphantly : `` Thou art God '' .
cm01.92.1	pre-adv	Mike said softly and triumphantly : `` Thou art God '' as they merged , grokking together .
cm01.94.0	ref	Then , as their grokking made them ever closer and Mike felt himself almost ready to discorporate her voice called him back : `` Oh !
cm01.94.1	pre-adv	Then her voice called him back : `` Oh , as their grokking made them ever closer and Mike felt himself almost ready to discorporate !
cm01.100.0	ref	This went faster than scheduled as the Martians were helpful .
cm01.100.1	post-adj2	This went as the Martians were helpful faster than scheduled .
cm01.104.0	ref	On Earth elections continued and a very advanced poet published a limited edition of verse consisting entirely of punctuation marks and spaces ; Time magazine reviewed it and suggested that the Federation Assembly Daily Record should be translated into the medium .
cm01.104.1	post-adj2	On Earth elections continued and a very advanced poet published a limited edition of verse consisting of punctuation marks and spaces entirely ; Time magazine reviewed it and suggested that the Federation Assembly Daily Record should be translated into the medium .
cm01.107.0	ref	His chelas were required to assume the matsyendra posture dressed in hand-woven diapers while he read aloud from Rig-Veda and an assistant guru examined their purses in another room -- nothing was stolen ; the purpose was less immediate .
cm01.107.1	post-adv	His chelas were required while he read aloud from Rig-Veda and an assistant guru examined their purses in another room -- nothing was stolen ; the purpose was less immediate to assume the matsyendra posture dressed in hand-woven diapers .
cm01.110.0	ref	Fosterite bishops , after secret conclave , announced the Church 's second Major Miracle : Supreme Bishop Digby had been translated bodily to Heaven and spot-promoted to Archangel , ranking with-but-after Archangel Foster .
cm01.110.1	post-adj2	Fosterite bishops , after secret conclave , announced the Church 's second Major Miracle : Supreme Bishop Digby had been translated to Heaven bodily and spot-promoted to Archangel , ranking with-but-after Archangel Foster .
cm01.111.0	ref	The glorious news had been held up pending Heavenly confirmation of the elevation of a new Supreme Bishop , Huey Short -- a candidate accepted by the Boone faction after lots had been cast repeatedly .
cm01.111.1	post-adv	The glorious news had been held up pending Heavenly confirmation of the elevation of a new Supreme Bishop , Huey Short -- after lots had been cast repeatedly a candidate accepted by the Boone faction .
cm01.114.0	ref	The Man from Mars had interrupted him with his work half finished -- and that stupid jackass Short was certain to louse it up .
cm01.114.1	post-adv	The Man from Mars with his work half finished had interrupted him -- and that stupid jackass Short was certain to louse it up .
cm01.115.0	ref	Foster listened with angelic patience until Digby ran down , then said , `` Listen , junior , you 're an angel now -- so forget it .
cm01.115.1	post-adv	Foster until Digby ran down listened with angelic patience , then said , `` Listen , junior , you 're an angel now -- so forget it .
cm01.117.0	ref	You too were a stupid jackass until you poisoned me .
cm01.117.1	post-adv	Until you poisoned me you too were a stupid jackass .
cm01.121.0	ref	Some of them were warts until they got promoted .
cm01.121.1	post-adv	Until they got promoted some of them were warts .
cm01.127.0	ref	Oh , you can submit a requisition for a miracle if you want to make a fool of yourself .
cm01.127.1	post-adv	Oh , you if you want to make a fool of yourself can submit a requisition for a miracle .
cm01.130.0	ref	They run their show their way -- the Universe has variety , something for everybody -- a fact you field workers often miss '' .
cm01.130.1	dat-np-np	They run their way to their show -- the Universe has variety , something for everybody -- a fact you field workers often miss '' .
cm01.132.0	ref	`` I held still for the same thing , didn't I ?
cm01.132.1	post-adj2	`` I held for the same thing still , didn't I ?
cm01.136.0	ref	If you need a Day off to calm down , duck over to the Muslim Paradise and take it .
cm01.136.1	pre-adv	Duck over to the Muslim Paradise and take it , if you need a Day off to calm down .
cm01.138.0	ref	The sooner you act like an angel the quicker you 'll feel angelic .
cm01.138.1	pre-adj2	The quicker the sooner you act like an angel you 'll feel angelic .
cm01.143.0	ref	Jubal did not hear of Digby 's disappearance when it was announced , and , when he did , while he had a fleeting suspicion , he dismissed it ; if Mike had had a finger in it , he had gotten away with it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried Jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered .
cm01.143.1	post-adv	Jubal when it was announced did not hear of Digby 's disappearance , and , when he did , while he had a fleeting suspicion , he dismissed it ; if Mike had had a finger in it , he had gotten away with it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried Jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered .
cm01.143.2	pre-adv	Jubal did not hear of Digby 's disappearance when it was announced , and , while he had a fleeting suspicion , he dismissed it , when he did ; if Mike had had a finger in it , he had gotten away with it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried Jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered .
cm01.143.3	pre-adv	Jubal did not hear of Digby 's disappearance when it was announced , and , when he did he dismissed it , while he had a fleeting suspicion ; if Mike had had a finger in it , he had gotten away with it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried Jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered .
cm01.143.4	pre-adv	Jubal did not hear of Digby 's disappearance when it was announced , and , when he did , while he had a fleeting suspicion , he dismissed it ; he had gotten away with it , if Mike had had a finger in it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried Jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered .
cm01.148.0	ref	Jubal couldn't reconstruct the crime from the way the girls behaved because patterns kept shifting -- ABC vs D , then BCD vs A or AB vs CD , or AD vs CB , through all ways that four women can gang up on each other .
cm01.148.1	post-adv	Jubal because patterns kept shifting -- ABC vs D , then BCD vs A or AB vs CD , or AD vs CB , through all ways that four women can gang up on each other couldn't reconstruct the crime from the way the girls behaved .
cm01.149.0	ref	This continued most of the week following that ill-starred trip to church , during which period Mike stayed in his room and usually in a trance so deep that Jubal would have pronounced him dead had he not seen it before .
cm01.149.1	post-adv	This continued most of the week following that ill-starred trip to church , during which period Mike stayed in his room and usually in a trance so deep that Jubal would had he not seen it before have pronounced him dead .
cm01.150.0	ref	Jubal would not have minded it if service had not gone to pieces .
cm01.150.1	post-adv	Jubal would not if service had not gone to pieces have minded it .
cm01.153.0	ref	Absent-minded , subject to unexplained tears Jubal would have bet his life that if Anne were to witness the Second Coming , she would memorize date , time , personae , events , and barometric pressure without batting her calm blue eyes .
cm01.153.1	post-adv	Absent-minded , subject to unexplained tears Jubal would have bet his life that if Anne were to witness the Second Coming , she without batting her calm blue eyes would memorize date , time , personae , events , and barometric pressure .
cm01.153.2	pre-adv	Absent-minded , subject to unexplained tears Jubal would have bet his life that she would memorize date , time , personae , events , and barometric pressure without batting her calm blue eyes , if Anne were to witness the Second Coming .
cm02.2.0	ref	However , we sent a third vessel out , a much smaller and faster one than the first two .
cm02.2.1	dat-np-np	However , we sent a much smaller and faster one than the first two out , to a third vessel .
cm02.4.0	ref	`` But the third ship came back several years ago and reported ''
cm02.4.1	post-adj2	`` But the third ship came several years ago back and reported ''
cm02.6.0	ref	Macneff stopped pacing to stare at Hal with his pale blue eyes .
cm02.6.1	post-adj2	Macneff stopped pacing to stare with his pale blue eyes at Hal .
cm02.15.0	ref	I still bear scars on my back where Pornsen , my gapt , whipped me because I had not learned my lessons well enough .
cm02.15.1	post-adv	I still bear scars on my back where because I had not learned my lessons well enough Pornsen , my gapt , whipped me .
cm02.21.0	ref	He was the dormitory gapt when I went to college and thought I was getting away from him .
cm02.21.1	post-adv	When I went to college and thought I was getting away from him he was the dormitory gapt .
cm02.26.0	ref	If I get a low M.R. , I do so because I want it that way or my dark self does .
cm02.26.1	post-adv	Because I want it that way or my dark self does if I get a low M.R. , I do so .
cm02.26.2	pre-adv	I do so because I want it that way or my dark self does , if I get a low M.R. .
cm02.27.0	ref	If I die , I die because I willed it so .
cm02.27.1	post-adv	Because I willed it so if I die , I die .
cm02.27.2	pre-adv	I die because I willed it so , if I die .
cm02.30.0	ref	`` But did the expedition find any records of the Forerunner having been on this planet ? Perhaps , even , though this is too much to wish , find the Forerunner himself '' ?
cm02.30.1	post-adv	Though this is too much to wish , `` but did the expedition find any records of the Forerunner having been on this planet ? Perhaps , even find the Forerunner himself '' ?
cm02.30.2	post-adj2	`` But did the expedition find any records of the Forerunner having been on this planet ? even , perhaps , though this is too much to wish , find the Forerunner himself '' ?
cm02.34.0	ref	I can't tell you now the distance in lightyears or what star this was , though you can see it with the naked eye at night in this hemisphere .
cm02.34.1	dat-np-np	I can't tell the distance in lightyears or what star this was now to you , though you can see it with the naked eye at night in this hemisphere .
cm02.34.2	post-adv	I , though you can see it with the naked eye at night in this hemisphere , can't tell you now the distance in lightyears or what star this was .
cm02.35.0	ref	If you volunteer , you will be told where you 're going after the ship leaves .
cm02.35.1	post-adv	If you volunteer , you will after the ship leaves be told where you 're going .
cm02.35.2	pre-adv	You will be told where you 're going after the ship leaves , if you volunteer .
cm02.39.0	ref	We have considered several of your professionals because they were lamechians and above suspicion .
cm02.39.1	post-adv	We because they were lamechians and above suspicion have considered several of your professionals .
cm02.49.0	ref	And , if a man is married , he will automatically be given a divorce '' .
cm02.49.1	pre-adv	And he will automatically be given a divorce , if a man is married '' .
cm02.53.0	ref	It 's inevitable in this case , for the couple will be separated for , at the least , forty years .
cm02.53.1	post-adv	For the couple will be separated for , at the least , forty years , it 's inevitable in this case .
cm02.56.0	ref	`` I volunteer '' , said Hal .
cm02.56.1	iquote	`` I volunteer '' , Hal said .
cm02.57.0	ref	`` Tell me more , Sandalphon '' .
cm02.57.1	dat-np-np	`` Tell more to me , Sandalphon '' .
cm02.64.0	ref	His mind turned the globe swiftly for him , and he visualized Africa , which used Swahili south of the Sahara Sea .
cm02.64.1	post-adj2	His mind turned the globe for him swiftly , and he visualized Africa , which used Swahili south of the Sahara Sea .
cm02.72.0	ref	Here the peoples spoke the tongue of Iceland because that island had gotten the jump on the Hawaiian-Americans who were busy resettling North America and the western half of South America after the Apocalyptic War .
cm02.72.1	post-adv	Because that island had gotten the jump on the Hawaiian-Americans who were busy resettling North America and the western half of South America after the Apocalyptic War here the peoples spoke the tongue of Iceland .
cm02.74.0	ref	Hal knew that when that side of Earth rotated into the night zone , Sigmen City would blaze out into space .
cm02.74.1	pre-adv	Hal knew that Sigmen City would blaze out into space , when that side of Earth rotated into the night zone .
cm02.76.0	ref	But Mary would soon no longer be living there , for she would be notified in a few days that her husband had died in an accident while on a flight to Tahiti .
cm02.76.1	post-adv	But Mary would soon no longer , for she would be notified in a few days that her husband had died in an accident while on a flight to Tahiti , be living there .
cm02.76.2	post-adv	But Mary would soon no longer be living there , for she would be notified in a few days that her husband while on a flight to Tahiti had died in an accident .
cm02.77.0	ref	She would weep in private , he was sure , for she loved him in her frigid way , though in public she would be dry-eyed .
cm02.77.1	post-adv	For she loved him in her frigid way , she would weep in private , he was sure though in public she would be dry-eyed .
cm02.77.2	post-adv	Though in public she would be dry-eyed , she would weep in private , he was sure , for she loved him in her frigid way .
cm02.77.3	quote	She would weep in private , was sure , for she loved he him in her frigid way , though in public she would be dry-eyed .
cm02.78.0	ref	Her friends and professional associates would sympathize with her , not because she had lost a beloved husband , but because she had been married to a man who thought unrealistically .
cm02.78.1	post-adv	Her friends and professional associates , not because she had lost a beloved husband , but because she had been married to a man who thought unrealistically , would sympathize with her .
cm02.79.0	ref	If Hal Yarrow had been killed in a crash , he must have wanted it that way .
cm02.79.1	pre-adv	He must have wanted it that way , if Hal Yarrow had been killed in a crash .
cm02.84.0	ref	Hal felt sorry for Mary ; he had a time keeping the tears from welling to his own eyes as he stood in the crowd in the observation dome .
cm02.84.1	post-adv	Hal felt sorry for Mary ; as he stood in the crowd in the observation dome he had a time keeping the tears from welling to his own eyes .
cm02.87.0	ref	Mary was free to marry again , not knowing that the Sturch had secretly given her a divorce , thinking that death had dissolved her marriage .
cm02.87.1	dat-np-np	Mary was free to marry again , not knowing that the Sturch had secretly given a divorce to her , thinking that death had dissolved her marriage .
cm02.99.0	ref	There was the squat loose-jowled man , smiling lopsidedly up at him .
cm02.99.1	post-adj2	There was the squat loose-jowled man , smiling up at him lopsidedly .
cm02.105.0	ref	`` Sigmen love you , too , my guardian '' , said Hal , choking .
cm02.105.1	iquote	`` Sigmen love you , too , my guardian '' , Hal said , choking .
cm02.111.0	ref	Here they would lie in suspended animation for many years .
cm02.111.1	post-adj2	Here they would lie for many years in suspended animation .
cm02.112.0	ref	Some time later , after a check had been made of all automatic equipment , the crew would join the others .
cm02.112.1	pre-adv	Some time later the crew would join the others , after a check had been made of all automatic equipment .
cm02.113.0	ref	They would sleep while the Gabriel 's drive would increase the acceleration to a point which the unfrozen bodies of the personnel could not have endured .
cm02.113.1	post-adv	They while the Gabriel 's drive would increase the acceleration to a point which the unfrozen bodies of the personnel could not have endured would sleep .
cm02.114.0	ref	Upon reaching the desired speed , the automatic equipment would cut off the drive , and the silent but not empty vessel would hurl towards the star which was its journey 's end .
cm02.114.1	pre-adv	The automatic equipment would cut off the drive , upon reaching the desired speed , and the silent but not empty vessel would hurl towards the star which was its journey 's end .
cm02.117.0	ref	Then , after slowing the vessel considerably , the drive would adjust to a one-gee deceleration .
cm02.117.1	pre-adv	Then the drive would adjust to a one-gee deceleration , after slowing the vessel considerably .
cm02.120.0	ref	And , in the half-year left before reaching their destination , the men would carry out whatever preparations were needed .
cm02.120.1	post-adv	And , in before reaching their destination the half-year left , the men would carry out whatever preparations were needed .
cm02.127.0	ref	This discovery caused Hal anxiety .
cm02.127.1	dat-np-np	This discovery caused anxiety to Hal .
cm02.129.0	ref	Yet , if he used all of the little means at his disposal , he would be instructing his students wrongly .
cm02.129.1	pre-adv	Yet he would be instructing his students wrongly , if he used all of the little means at his disposal .
cm02.131.0	ref	For one thing , the organs of speech of the Ozagen natives differed somewhat from Earthmen 's ; the sounds made by these organs were , therefore , dissimilar .
cm02.131.1	post-adj2	For one thing , the organs of speech of the Ozagen natives differed from Earthmen 's somewhat ; the sounds made by these organs were , therefore , dissimilar .
cm02.139.0	ref	Fortunately , gender was inflected , though the expression of it would be difficult for anybody not born in Siddo .
cm02.139.1	post-adv	Fortunately , gender , though the expression of it would be difficult for anybody not born in Siddo , was inflected .
cm03.3.0	ref	What Gabriel was being asked to do now , however , was to re-examine all his basic assumptions , make value-judgments on them , and give them new and different powers in his mind to govern his motives .
cm03.3.1	dat-np-np	What Gabriel was being asked to do now , however , was to re-examine all his basic assumptions , make value-judgments on them , and give new and different powers in his mind to govern his motives to them .
cm03.7.0	ref	He had already become used to Hesperus ' snapping back answers to questions almost before Jack could get them asked .
cm03.7.1	post-adv	He had already become used to almost before Jack could get them asked Hesperus ' snapping back answers to questions .
cm03.11.0	ref	`` We misjudged you '' , he said slowly .
cm03.11.1	quote	`` We misjudged you '' , said he slowly .
cm03.14.0	ref	But they have survived for long periods as races , whereas you are young .
cm03.14.1	post-adv	But they , whereas you are young , have survived for long periods as races .
cm03.14.2	post-adj2	But they have survived as races for long periods , whereas you are young .
cm03.22.0	ref	`` It 's a kind of agreement in which each party gives something to the other '' , Jack said .
cm03.22.1	quote	`` It 's a kind of agreement in which each party gives something to the other '' , said Jack .
cm03.22.2	dat-np-pp	`` It 's a kind of agreement in which each party gives the other something '' , Jack said .
cm03.23.0	ref	`` We regard it as fair only when each party feels that what he has received is as valuable , or more valuable , than what he has given '' .
cm03.23.1	post-adv	Only when each party feels that what he has received is as valuable , or more valuable , than what he has given `` we regard it as fair '' .
cm03.27.0	ref	When it is done between races or nations , it is called making a treaty .
cm03.27.1	pre-adv	It is called making a treaty , when it is done between races or nations .
cm03.32.0	ref	Though it might be that we would have much to give you , you have nothing to give us '' .
cm03.32.1	pre-adv	You have nothing to give us , though it might be that we would have much to give you '' .
cm03.41.0	ref	We will gladly entertain your young and give them proper living quarters , in return for their help in running our fusion reactors .
cm03.41.1	dat-np-np	We will gladly entertain your young and give proper living quarters to them , in return for their help in running our fusion reactors .
cm03.46.0	ref	What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve on Earth as it is in Heaven regardless of the applicable Earth laws .
cm03.46.1	post-adj3	What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve as it is in Heaven on Earth regardless of the applicable Earth laws .
cm03.46.2	post-adj3	What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve regardless of the applicable Earth laws as it is in Heaven on Earth .
cm03.46.3	post-adj3	What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve on Earth regardless of the applicable Earth laws as it is in Heaven .
cm03.46.4	post-adj3	What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve regardless of the applicable Earth laws on Earth as it is in Heaven .
cm03.46.5	post-adj3	What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve as it is in Heaven regardless of the applicable Earth laws on Earth .
cm03.55.0	ref	Out of that agreement , though not by any easy road , eventually emerged the present world hegemony of the United Nations ; suspicion between member states still existed , but it was of about the same low order of virulence as the twentieth-century rivalry between Arizona and California over water supplies .
cm03.55.1	pre-adj2	Eventually , out of that agreement , though not by any easy road emerged the present world hegemony of the United Nations ; suspicion between member states still existed , but it was of about the same low order of virulence as the twentieth-century rivalry between Arizona and California over water supplies .
cm03.56.0	ref	Besides , agreements `` in principle '' , with the petty details to be thrashed out later , were commonplace in diplomatic history .
cm03.56.1	pre-adv	Besides , agreements `` in principle '' were commonplace in diplomatic history , with the petty details to be thrashed out later .
cm03.59.0	ref	There was no question in Jack 's mind of the good faith on one side , at least .
cm03.59.1	post-adj3	There was no question of the good faith on one side in Jack 's mind , at least .
cm03.59.2	post-adj3	There was no question at least of the good faith on one side , in Jack 's mind .
cm03.59.3	post-adj3	There was no question in Jack 's mind at least , of the good faith on one side .
cm03.59.4	post-adj3	There was no question , at least , in Jack 's mind of the good faith on one side .
cm03.59.5	post-adj3	There was no question of the good faith on one side , at least in Jack 's mind .
cm03.60.0	ref	If mankind could be convinced of that It was worth trying .
cm03.60.1	pre-adv	It was worth trying if mankind could be convinced of that .
cm03.67.0	ref	For a moment he could make no sense at all of what he saw .
cm03.67.1	post-adj2	For a moment he could make no sense of what he saw at all .
cm03.70.0	ref	The Angels in the nursery were zigzagging wildly in all directions , seemingly at random .
cm03.70.1	post-adj3	The Angels in the nursery were zigzagging in all directions wildly , seemingly at random .
cm03.70.2	post-adj3	The Angels in the nursery were zigzagging seemingly at random in all directions , wildly .
cm03.70.3	post-adj3	The Angels in the nursery were zigzagging wildly seemingly at random , in all directions .
cm03.70.4	post-adj3	The Angels in the nursery were zigzagging , seemingly at random , wildly in all directions .
cm03.70.5	post-adj3	The Angels in the nursery were zigzagging in all directions , seemingly at random wildly .
cm03.84.0	ref	If that was the skiff , it was making unprecedented speed .
cm03.84.1	pre-adv	It was making unprecedented speed , if that was the skiff .
cm03.87.0	ref	The sail was still unfurled , though there were a good many holes in it , as Langer had predicted would be the case by now .
cm03.87.1	post-adv	Though there were a good many holes in it , as Langer had predicted would be the case by now , the sail was still unfurled .
cm03.87.2	post-adv	The sail was still unfurled , though , as Langer had predicted would be the case by now , there were a good many holes in it .
cm03.89.0	ref	The skiff was not heading for the nursery , however .
cm03.89.1	post-adj2	The skiff was not heading however , for the nursery .
cm03.90.0	ref	It seemed unlikely that her crew , if either of them were alive , could even see the Ariadne , for they were passing her at a distance of nearly a light-year .
cm03.90.1	post-adv	For they were passing her at a distance of nearly a light-year , it seemed unlikely that her crew , if either of them were alive , could even see the Ariadne .
cm03.90.2	pre-adv	It seemed unlikely that her crew could even see the Ariadne , if either of them were alive , for they were passing her at a distance of nearly a light-year .
cm03.93.0	ref	The sail , ragged though it was , still had enough surface to catch some of the ocean of power being poured out from the nursery stars .
cm03.93.1	pre-adv	The sail still had enough surface to catch some of the ocean of power being poured out from the nursery stars , ragged though it was .
cm03.94.0	ref	He would never have believed , without seeing it , that the bizarre little vessel could go so fast .
cm03.94.1	post-adv	He would never , without seeing it , have believed that the bizarre little vessel could go so fast .
cm03.97.0	ref	There was only one possible answer , but Jack 's horrified mind refused to believe it until he had fed the radar plots of the skiff 's course into the computer .
cm03.97.1	post-adv	There was only one possible answer , but until he had fed the radar plots of the skiff 's course into the computer Jack 's horrified mind refused to believe it .
cm03.98.0	ref	The curve on the card the computer spat back at him could n't be argued with , however .
cm03.98.1	post-adj2	The curve on the card the computer spat at him back could n't be argued with , however .
cm03.99.0	ref	The skiff was headed for the very center of the nebula -- toward that place which , Jack knew now , could hold nothing less important than the very core of the Angel 's life and religion .
cm03.99.1	post-adj2	The skiff was headed toward that place which , Jack knew now , could hold nothing less important than the very core of the Angel 's life and religion -- for the very center of the nebula .
cm03.103.0	ref	Langer would have to be headed off , whether he knew where he was going or not .
cm03.103.1	post-adv	Langer would have to , whether he knew where he was going or not , be headed off .
cm03.108.0	ref	If it was intentional , it was now also unnecessary ; and whether intentional or not , the outcome would be disastrous .
cm03.108.1	pre-adv	It was now also unnecessary , if it was intentional ; and whether intentional or not , the outcome would be disastrous .
cm03.108.2	pre-adv	If it was intentional , it was now also unnecessary ; and the outcome would be disastrous , whether intentional or not .
cm03.108.3	post-adj2	If it was intentional , it was also now unnecessary ; and whether intentional or not , the outcome would be disastrous .
cm03.110.0	ref	When he was back on his feet again and about to reinstall the fuses , however , he hesitated .
cm03.110.1	pre-adv	However , he hesitated , when he was back on his feet again and about to reinstall the fuses .
cm03.115.0	ref	`` I 'm going to turn my generator back on , as I promised to do .
cm03.115.1	post-adv	`` I 'm going , as I promised to do , to turn my generator back on .
cm03.116.0	ref	But I ca n't take you to Earth yet .
cm03.116.1	post-adj2	But I ca n't take you yet to Earth .
cm03.117.0	ref	First I 've got to intercept my brothers before they get any deeper into trouble .
cm03.117.1	post-adv	First I 've got before they get any deeper into trouble to intercept my brothers .
cm03.120.0	ref	`` Nobody else can live in your hearth while I am in it '' , Hesperus said promptly .
cm03.120.1	post-adv	`` Nobody else while I am in it can live in your hearth '' , Hesperus said promptly .
cm03.120.2	quote	`` Nobody else can live in your hearth while I am in it '' , said Hesperus promptly .
cm03.122.0	ref	If because of this incident they become angry with Earth , I will not be permitted to go there at all .
cm03.122.1	pre-adv	I will not be permitted to go there at all , if because of this incident they become angry with Earth .
cm03.122.2	post-adj2	If because of this incident they become angry with Earth , I will not be permitted to go at all there .
cm03.123.0	ref	Therefore of course I will help '' .
cm03.123.1	pre-adj2	Of course therefore I will help '' .
cm03.130.0	ref	But since he had failed to anticipate it , he lost the five minutes anyhow , in plotting an intercept orbit .
cm03.130.1	pre-adv	But he lost the five minutes anyhow , in plotting an intercept orbit , since he had failed to anticipate it .
cm03.130.2	post-adj2	But since he had failed to anticipate it , he lost the five minutes in plotting an intercept orbit , anyhow .
cm04.2.0	ref	He rubbed his eyes sleepily with one huge paw .
cm04.2.1	post-adj2	He rubbed his eyes with one huge paw sleepily .
cm04.10.0	ref	The facsiport rolled open on the landscape .
cm04.10.1	post-adj2	The facsiport rolled on the landscape open .
cm04.17.0	ref	But to the infuriation of scientists , for no known reason not all of them did .
cm04.17.1	pre-adj2	But for no known reason , to the infuriation of scientists not all of them did .
cm04.19.0	ref	They lay months away from the nearest Earth star by jump drive , and no one knew what they were good for , although it was felt that they would probably be good for something if it could only be discovered -- much like the continent of Antarctica in ancient history .
cm04.19.1	post-adv	They lay months away from the nearest Earth star by jump drive , and , although it was felt that they would probably be good for something if it could only be discovered -- much like the continent of Antarctica in ancient history , no one knew what they were good for .
cm04.19.2	post-adv	They lay months away from the nearest Earth star by jump drive , and no one knew what they were good for , although it was felt that they -- if it could only be discovered -- would probably be good for something much like the continent of Antarctica in ancient history .
cm04.22.0	ref	`` Some can be lonely in a crowd '' , Nogol said elaborately .
cm04.22.1	quote	`` Some can be lonely in a crowd '' , said Nogol elaborately .
cm04.25.0	ref	`` We can breathe out there , all right .
cm04.25.1	post-adj2	`` We can breathe all right , out there .
cm04.33.0	ref	`` I think they 're dead '' , Ekstrohm interjected quietly .
cm04.33.1	quote	`` I think they 're dead '' , interjected Ekstrohm quietly .
cm04.37.0	ref	`` Ekstrohm , you and I will have a look '' , Ryan said .
cm04.37.1	quote	`` Ekstrohm , you and I will have a look '' , said Ryan .
cm04.41.0	ref	`` I heard a story once about a rookie who got excited when the captain stepped outside and he could n't get an encephalographic reading on him .
cm04.41.1	post-adv	`` I heard a story once about a rookie who when the captain stepped outside and he could n't get an encephalographic reading on him got excited .
cm04.41.2	post-adj2	`` I heard a story about a rookie who got excited when the captain stepped outside and he could n't get an encephalographic reading on him once .
cm04.44.0	ref	Remember , when the little hand is straight up that 's negative .
cm04.44.1	pre-adv	Remember , that 's negative when the little hand is straight up .
cm04.45.0	ref	Positive results start when it goes towards the hand you use to make your mark '' .
cm04.45.1	post-adv	When it goes towards the hand you use to make your mark positive results start '' .
cm04.48.0	ref	Ekstrohm smiled , and followed the captain through the airlock with only a glance at the lapel gauge on his coverall .
cm04.48.1	post-adj2	Ekstrohm smiled , and followed the captain with only a glance at the lapel gauge on his coverall through the airlock .
cm04.61.0	ref	Still , it sometimes gives you a creepy feeling to find a rabbit or a snapping turtle on some strange world .
cm04.61.1	dat-np-np	Still , it sometimes gives a creepy feeling to you to find a rabbit or a snapping turtle on some strange world .
cm04.62.0	ref	It makes you wonder if this exploration business is n't all some big joke , and somebody has been everywhere before you even started '' .
cm04.62.1	post-adv	It makes you wonder if this exploration business is n't all some big joke , and somebody before you even started has been everywhere '' .
cm04.63.0	ref	The surveyor looked sidewise at the captain .
cm04.63.1	post-adj2	The surveyor looked at the captain sidewise .
cm04.70.0	ref	It sure as hell does n't look like any dominant intelligent species to me .
cm04.70.1	post-adj2	It sure as hell does n't look to me like any dominant intelligent species .
cm04.73.0	ref	`` No , it is n't '' , Ekstrohm said .
cm04.73.1	quote	`` No , it is n't '' , said Ekstrohm .
cm04.74.0	ref	`` I think we 'd better let it lay until we get a clearer picture of the ecological setup around here .
cm04.74.1	post-adv	`` I think we until we get a clearer picture of the ecological setup around here 'd better let it lay .
cm04.77.0	ref	`` It looks like we did , when we made blastdown '' .
cm04.77.1	post-adv	`` It looks like , when we made blastdown , we did '' .
cm04.84.0	ref	Maybe because they have had virtually no radioactive exposure and do n't have any R 's stored up , they could take a lot without harm '' .
cm04.84.1	pre-adv	Maybe they could take a lot without harm , because they have had virtually no radioactive exposure and do n't have any R 's stored up '' .
cm04.85.0	ref	`` Then maybe it was the shockwave we set up .
cm04.85.1	pre-adj2	`` Maybe then it was the shockwave we set up .
cm04.94.0	ref	I just hope it does n't work on Earthmen too .
cm04.94.1	post-adj2	I just hope it does n't work too on Earthmen .
cm04.105.0	ref	Yet he knew the others were sleeping more soundly , now that they had renewed their contact with the matter that had birthed them to send them riding high vacuum .
cm04.105.1	post-adj2	Yet he knew the others were sleeping now that they had renewed their contact with the matter that had birthed them to send them riding high vacuum , more soundly .
cm04.108.0	ref	He threw off the light blanket and swung his feet off the bunk , to the floor .
cm04.108.1	post-adj2	He threw off the light blanket and swung his feet to the floor , off the bunk .
cm04.113.0	ref	He no longer had to lie in his bunk all night , his eyes closed , pretending to sleep .
cm04.113.1	post-adj2	He no longer had to lie all night in his bunk , his eyes closed , pretending to sleep .
cm04.124.0	ref	Insomnia would ground him from the Exploration Service , on physiological if not psychological grounds .
cm04.124.1	post-adj2	Insomnia would ground him on physiological if not psychological grounds , from the Exploration Service .
cm04.128.0	ref	Since he could n't sleep anyway , he might as well stand their watches for them or write their reports .
cm04.128.1	pre-adv	He might as well stand their watches for them or write their reports , since he could n't sleep anyway .
cm04.130.0	ref	A man with insomnia had better avoid bad dreams of that kind if he knew what was good for him .
cm04.130.1	post-adv	A man with insomnia if he knew what was good for him had better avoid bad dreams of that kind .
cm04.138.0	ref	Behind him , his mates stirred without waking .
cm04.138.1	post-adv	Without waking behind him , his mates stirred .
cm04.139.0	ref	Ekstrohm was startled in the morning by a banging on the hatch of his bubble .
cm04.139.1	post-adj2	Ekstrohm was startled by a banging on the hatch of his bubble in the morning .
cm04.140.0	ref	It took him a few seconds to put his thoughts in order , and then he got up from the bunk where he had been resting , sleeplessly .
cm04.140.1	dat-np-np	It took a few seconds to him to put his thoughts in order , and then he got up from the bunk where he had been resting , sleeplessly .
cm04.156.0	ref	`` I 'll be damned '' , Ekstrohm said .
cm04.156.1	quote	`` I 'll be damned '' , said Ekstrohm .
cm04.163.0	ref	`` Listen , Ekstrohm , I want to give you the benefit of every doubt .
cm04.163.1	dat-np-np	`` Listen , Ekstrohm , I want to give the benefit of every doubt to you .
cm04.164.0	ref	But you are n't exactly the model of a surveyor , you know .
cm04.164.1	quote	But you are n't exactly the model of a surveyor , know you .
cm04.165.0	ref	You 've been riding on a pink ticket for six years , you know that '' .
cm04.165.1	post-adj2	You 've been riding for six years on a pink ticket , you know that '' .
cm04.167.0	ref	`` You 've been hiding things from me and Nogol every jump we 've made with you .
cm04.167.1	post-adj2	`` You 've been hiding things every jump we 've made with you from me and Nogol .
cm04.172.0	ref	`` All I know is that you were outside the bubbles last night , and you were the only sentient being who came in or out of our alarm web .
cm04.172.1	post-adj2	`` All I know is that you were last night outside the bubbles , and you were the only sentient being who came in or out of our alarm web .
cm04.174.0	ref	Now all the bodies are missing , like they got up and walked away '' .
cm04.174.1	post-adv	Now all the bodies , like they got up and walked away , are missing '' .
cm04.180.0	ref	I give you my word I 'm not trying to pull some stupid kind of joke , or to deliberately foul up the expedition .
cm04.180.1	dat-np-np	I give my word I 'm not trying to pull some stupid kind of joke , or to deliberately foul up the expedition to you .
cm05.3.0	ref	For her first three vegetable months she waved her crabbed claws , kicked weakly with her clubbed feet and enjoyed the usual routine of the infant .
cm05.3.1	post-adj2	For her first three vegetable months she waved her crabbed claws , kicked with her clubbed feet weakly and enjoyed the usual routine of the infant .
cm05.8.0	ref	As she matured , more and more neural synapses would be adjusted to operate other mechanisms that went into the maintenance and running of a space ship .
cm05.8.1	pre-adv	More and more neural synapses would be adjusted to operate other mechanisms that went into the maintenance and running of a space ship , as she matured .
cm05.9.0	ref	For Helva was destined to be the `` brain '' half of a scout ship , partnered with a man or a woman , whichever she chose , as the mobile half .
cm05.9.1	post-adj2	For Helva was destined to be the `` brain '' half of a scout ship , partnered as the mobile half , with a man or a woman , whichever she chose .
cm05.14.0	ref	They would have to bide their official time and see , trusting that the massive doses of shell-psychology would suffice her , too , as the necessary bulwark against her unusual confinement and the pressures of her profession .
cm05.14.1	post-adj2	They would have to bide their official time and see , trusting that the massive doses of shell-psychology would suffice her , as the necessary bulwark against her unusual confinement and the pressures of her profession , too .
cm05.18.0	ref	And very , very few were lost when the final connection was made to the control panels of ship or industrial combine .
cm05.18.1	post-adv	And very , very few when the final connection was made to the control panels of ship or industrial combine were lost .
cm05.19.0	ref	Shell people resembled mature dwarfs in size whatever their natal deformities were , but the well-oriented brain would not have changed places with the most perfect body in the Universe .
cm05.19.1	post-adv	Whatever their natal deformities were shell people resembled mature dwarfs in size , but the well-oriented brain would not have changed places with the most perfect body in the Universe .
cm05.20.0	ref	So , for happy years , Helva scooted around in her shell with her classmates , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
cm05.20.1	pre-adj2	For happy years , so , Helva scooted around in her shell with her classmates , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
cm05.20.2	post-adj3	So , for happy years , Helva scooted in her shell around with her classmates , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
cm05.20.3	post-adj3	So , for happy years , Helva scooted with her classmates in her shell around , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
cm05.20.4	post-adj3	So , for happy years , Helva scooted around with her classmates in her shell , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
cm05.20.5	post-adj3	So , for happy years , Helva scooted , with her classmates , around in her shell playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
cm05.20.6	post-adj3	So , for happy years , Helva scooted in her shell with her classmates around , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
cm05.24.0	ref	One such group got all incensed over shelled `` children '' when Helva was just turning fourteen .
cm05.24.1	post-adv	When Helva was just turning fourteen one such group got all incensed over shelled `` children '' .
cm05.25.0	ref	When they were forced to , Central Worlds shrugged its shoulders , arranged a tour of the Laboratory Schools and set the tour off to a big start by showing the members case histories , complete with photographs .
cm05.25.1	dat-np-np	When they were forced to , Central Worlds shrugged its shoulders , arranged a tour of the Laboratory Schools and set the tour off to a big start by showing case histories , complete with photographs to the members .
cm05.25.2	pre-adv	Central Worlds shrugged its shoulders , arranged a tour of the Laboratory Schools and set the tour off to a big start by showing the members case histories , complete with photographs , when they were forced to .
cm05.25.3	post-adj2	When they were forced to , Central Worlds shrugged its shoulders , arranged a tour of the Laboratory Schools and set the tour off by showing the members case histories , complete with photographs to a big start .
cm05.32.0	ref	As she worked she absentmindedly crooned , producing a curious sound .
cm05.32.1	pre-adv	She absentmindedly crooned , producing a curious sound as she worked .
cm05.35.0	ref	`` Why , what a lovely voice you have '' , said one of the female visitors .
cm05.35.1	iquote	`` Why , what a lovely voice you have '' , one of the female visitors said .
cm05.38.0	ref	She instinctively regulated her `` sight '' until the skin lost its cratered look and the pores assumed normal proportions .
cm05.38.1	post-adv	Until the skin lost its cratered look and the pores assumed normal proportions she instinctively regulated her `` sight '' .
cm05.39.0	ref	`` Yes , we have quite a few years of voice training , madam '' , remarked Helva calmly .
cm05.39.1	iquote	`` Yes , we have quite a few years of voice training , madam '' , Helva remarked calmly .
cm05.42.0	ref	Although this was the first time that Helva had seen unshelled people , she took this experience calmly .
cm05.42.1	pre-adv	She took this experience calmly , although this was the first time that Helva had seen unshelled people .
cm05.44.0	ref	`` I meant that you have a nice singing voice dear '' , the lady amended .
cm05.44.1	quote	`` I meant that you have a nice singing voice dear '' , amended the lady .
cm05.50.0	ref	`` No , I say '' , the lady twittered .
cm05.50.1	quote	`` No , I say '' , twittered the lady .
cm05.51.0	ref	Helva turned her vision back to magnification and surveyed her copy critically .
cm05.51.1	post-adj2	Helva turned her vision to magnification back and surveyed her copy critically .
cm05.55.0	ref	If she could have blushed , she would have .
cm05.55.1	pre-adv	She would have , if she could have blushed .
cm05.57.0	ref	The monitor of this discourse grinned with pride and amusement as Helva 's tone indicated pity for the unfortunate .
cm05.57.1	post-adv	As Helva 's tone indicated pity for the unfortunate the monitor of this discourse grinned with pride and amusement .
cm05.58.0	ref	`` Here , this will help '' , suggested Helva , substituting a magnifying device in one extension and holding it over the picture .
cm05.58.1	iquote	`` Here , this will help '' , Helva suggested , substituting a magnifying device in one extension and holding it over the picture .
cm05.63.0	ref	`` If you substitute ' atom ' for ' angel ' , the problem is not insoluble , given the metallic content of the pin in question '' .
cm05.63.1	pre-adv	The problem is not insoluble , given the metallic content of the pin in question `` if you substitute ' atom ' for ' angel ' '' .
cm05.69.0	ref	If the investigation committee spent months digesting the thoughtful food served them at the Laboratory School , they left Helva with a morsel as well .
cm05.69.1	pre-adv	They left Helva with a morsel as well , if the investigation committee spent months digesting the thoughtful food served them at the Laboratory School .
cm05.73.0	ref	Shell people were schooled to examine every aspect of a problem or situation before making a prognosis .
cm05.73.1	post-adv	Shell people were schooled before making a prognosis to examine every aspect of a problem or situation .
cm05.74.0	ref	Balanced properly between optimism and practicality , the nondefeatist attitude of the shell people led them to extricate themselves , their ships and personnel , from bizarre situations .
cm05.74.1	post-adj2	Balanced between optimism and practicality properly , the nondefeatist attitude of the shell people led them to extricate themselves , their ships and personnel , from bizarre situations .
cm05.75.0	ref	Therefore to Helva , the problem that she could n't open her mouth to sing , among other restrictions , did not bother her .
cm05.75.1	pre-adj2	To Helva therefore , the problem that she could n't open her mouth to sing , among other restrictions , did not bother her .
cm05.81.0	ref	For their purposes , oxygen and other gases were not drawn from the surrounding atmosphere through the medium of lungs but sustained artificially by solution in their shells .
cm05.81.1	post-adj2	For their purposes , oxygen and other gases were not drawn through the medium of lungs from the surrounding atmosphere but sustained artificially by solution in their shells .
cm05.84.0	ref	She compared the results with tape recordings of modern singers and was not unpleased although her own tapes had a peculiar quality about them , not at all unharmonious , merely unique .
cm05.84.1	post-adv	Although her own tapes had a peculiar quality about them , not at all unharmonious , merely unique she compared the results with tape recordings of modern singers and was not unpleased .
cm05.87.0	ref	It would not have occurred to her that it was curious for a female to sing bass , baritone , tenor , alto , mezzo , soprano and coloratura as she pleased .
cm05.87.1	post-adv	It would not have occurred to her that it was curious for a female as she pleased to sing bass , baritone , tenor , alto , mezzo , soprano and coloratura .
cm05.89.0	ref	If the authorities remarked on her curious avocation , they did so among themselves .
cm05.89.1	pre-adv	They did so among themselves , if the authorities remarked on her curious avocation .
cm05.94.0	ref	Her extendibles were diverted , connected or augmented and the final , delicate-beyond-description brain taps were completed while Helva remained anesthetically unaware of the proceedings .
cm05.94.1	post-adv	Her extendibles were diverted , connected or augmented and the final , delicate-beyond-description brain taps while Helva remained anesthetically unaware of the proceedings were completed .
cm05.95.0	ref	When she awoke , she was the ship .
cm05.95.1	pre-adv	She was the ship , when she awoke .
cm05.97.0	ref	She could take care of herself and her ambulatory half , in any situation already recorded in the annals of Central Worlds and any situation its most fertile minds could imagine .
cm05.97.1	post-adj2	She could take care in any situation already recorded in the annals of Central Worlds and any situation its most fertile minds could imagine , of herself and her ambulatory half .
cm05.98.0	ref	Her first actual flight , for she and her kind had made mock flights on dummy panels since she was eight , showed her complete mastery of the techniques of her profession .
cm05.98.1	post-adv	Her first actual flight , for she and her kind since she was eight had made mock flights on dummy panels , showed her complete mastery of the techniques of her profession .
cm05.101.0	ref	There were several missions which demanded instant attention but Helva had been of interest to several department heads in Central for some time and each man was determined to have her assigned to his section .
cm05.101.1	post-adj2	There were several missions which demanded instant attention but Helva had been of interest for some time to several department heads in Central and each man was determined to have her assigned to his section .
cm05.104.0	ref	Had there been another `` brain '' ship at the Base at the moment , Helva would have been guided to make the first move .
cm05.104.1	pre-adv	Helva would have been guided to make the first move , had there been another `` brain '' ship at the Base at the moment .
cm05.104.2	post-adj2	Had there been another `` brain '' ship at the moment at the Base , Helva would have been guided to make the first move .
cm05.105.0	ref	As it was , while Central wrangled among itself , Robert Tanner sneaked out of the pilots ' barracks , out to the field and over to Helva 's slim metal hull .
cm05.105.1	pre-adv	While Central wrangled among itself , Robert Tanner sneaked out of the pilots ' barracks , out to the field and over to Helva 's slim metal hull , as it was .
cm05.105.2	pre-adv	As it was Robert Tanner sneaked out of the pilots ' barracks , out to the field and over to Helva 's slim metal hull , while Central wrangled among itself .
cm05.108.0	ref	`` Are you my partner '' ? She asked hopefully , as she recognized the Scout Service uniform .
cm05.108.1	post-adv	As she recognized the Scout Service uniform , `` are you my partner '' ? She asked hopefully .
cm05.109.0	ref	`` All you have to do is ask '' , he retorted hopefully .
cm05.109.1	quote	`` All you have to do is ask '' , retorted he hopefully .
cm06.5.0	ref	B'dikkat had turned to the next knot of people when the super-condamine hit Mercer .
cm06.5.1	post-adv	B'dikkat when the super-condamine hit Mercer had turned to the next knot of people .
cm06.17.0	ref	It was foolish and snobbish to wear clothing when none of these nice people did .
cm06.17.1	post-adv	It was foolish and snobbish when none of these nice people did to wear clothing .
cm06.26.0	ref	The pain was gone , though it had been crippling the first time .
cm06.26.1	post-adv	The pain , though it had been crippling the first time , was gone .
cm06.38.0	ref	Mercer smiled at her through his happiness .
cm06.38.1	post-adj2	Mercer smiled through his happiness at her .
cm06.43.0	ref	In that beautiful place , among all those companionable and attractive people , he sat and smiled .
cm06.43.1	pre-adj2	Among all those companionable and attractive people , in that beautiful place , he sat and smiled .
cm06.50.0	ref	After a long time the half-man dragged himself over to the group with his powerful arms .
cm06.50.1	post-adj2	After a long time the half-man dragged himself with his powerful arms over to the group .
cm06.51.0	ref	Having arrived he blinked sleepily and friendlily at them , and lapsed back into the restful stupor from which he had emerged .
cm06.51.1	post-adj2	Having arrived he blinked at them sleepily and friendlily , and lapsed back into the restful stupor from which he had emerged .
cm06.58.0	ref	He remembered them well from his happy period .
cm06.58.1	post-adj2	He remembered them from his happy period well .
cm06.60.0	ref	He tried to ask the Lady Da how long they had had the drug , and how much longer they would have to wait before they had it again .
cm06.60.1	post-adv	He tried to ask the Lady Da how long they had had the drug , and how much longer they would have before they had it again to wait .
cm06.61.0	ref	She smiled at him with benign , remote happiness ; apparently her many torsos , stretched out along the ground , had a greater capacity for retaining the drug than did his body .
cm06.61.1	post-adj2	She smiled with benign , remote happiness at him ; apparently her many torsos , stretched out along the ground , had a greater capacity for retaining the drug than did his body .
cm06.65.0	ref	The half-man woke , recognized Mercer and gave him a healthily sleepy grin .
cm06.65.1	dat-np-np	The half-man woke , recognized Mercer and gave a healthily sleepy grin to him .
cm06.72.0	ref	`` But you want to ask me when B'dikkat is going to come back with the needle '' .
cm06.72.1	post-adj2	`` But you want to ask me when B'dikkat is going to come with the needle back '' .
cm06.89.0	ref	Mercer did not know what an `` Earth-week '' was , since he had not been a well-read man before his conviction , but he got nothing more from the half-man at that time .
cm06.89.1	post-adv	Mercer , since he had not been a well-read man before his conviction , did not know what an `` Earth-week '' was , but he got nothing more from the half-man at that time .
cm06.90.0	ref	The half-man received a dromozootic implant , turned red in the face , shouted senselessly at Mercer , `` Take it out , you fool ! Take it out of me '' !
cm06.90.1	dat-np-np	The half-man received a dromozootic implant , turned red in the face , shouted senselessly at Mercer , `` Take you fool out , to it ! Take it out of me '' !
cm06.90.2	post-adj2	The half-man received a dromozootic implant , turned red in the face , shouted at Mercer senselessly , `` Take it out , you fool ! Take it out of me '' !
cm06.91.0	ref	When Mercer looked on helplessly , the half-man twisted over on his side , his pink dusty back turned to Mercer , and wept hoarsely and quietly to himself .
cm06.91.1	pre-adv	The half-man twisted over on his side , his pink dusty back turned to Mercer , and wept hoarsely and quietly to himself , when Mercer looked on helplessly .
cm06.92.0	ref	Mercer himself could not tell how long it was before B'dikkat came back .
cm06.92.1	post-adv	Mercer himself could not tell how long before B'dikkat came back it was .
cm06.95.0	ref	Once again B'dikkat moved among them like a father ; once again they clustered like children .
cm06.95.1	post-adj2	Once again B'dikkat moved like a father among them ; once again they clustered like children .
cm06.96.0	ref	This time B'dikkat smiled pleasantly at the little head which had grown out of Mercer 's thigh -- a sleeping child 's head , covered with light hair on top and with dainty eyebrows over the resting eyes .
cm06.96.1	post-adj2	This time B'dikkat smiled at the little head which had grown out of Mercer 's thigh -- a sleeping child 's head , covered with light hair on top and with dainty eyebrows over the resting eyes pleasantly .
cm06.98.0	ref	When B'dikkat cut the head from Mercer 's thigh , he felt the knife grinding against the cartilage which held the head to his own body .
cm06.98.1	pre-adv	He felt the knife grinding against the cartilage which held the head to his own body , when B'dikkat cut the head from Mercer 's thigh .
cm06.99.0	ref	He saw the child-face grimace as the head was cut ; he felt the far , cool flash of unimportant pain , as B'dikkat dabbed the wound with a corrosive antiseptic which stopped all bleeding immediately .
cm06.99.1	post-adv	He saw as the head was cut the child-face grimace ; he felt the far , cool flash of unimportant pain , as B'dikkat dabbed the wound with a corrosive antiseptic which stopped all bleeding immediately .
cm06.99.2	post-adv	He saw the child-face grimace as the head was cut ; as B'dikkat dabbed the wound with a corrosive antiseptic which stopped all bleeding immediately , he felt the far , cool flash of unimportant pain .
cm06.105.0	ref	Lady Da smiled at him often , but there was no love in this place .
cm06.105.1	post-adj2	Lady Da smiled often at him , but there was no love in this place .
cm06.108.0	ref	She found this immensely comforting , even though Mercer did not make much sense out of it .
cm06.108.1	post-adv	Even though Mercer did not make much sense out of it , she found this immensely comforting .
cm06.111.0	ref	The bodies in the truck threshed and bawled without human speech when the dromozoa struck them .
cm06.111.1	post-adv	When the dromozoa struck them the bodies in the truck threshed and bawled without human speech .
cm06.114.0	ref	Only the memory of previous hurt , bewilderment and perplexity made him sure that if he did not ask B'dikkat when he , Mercer , was happy , the answer would no longer be available when he needed it .
cm06.114.1	post-adv	Only the memory of previous hurt , bewilderment and perplexity made him sure that if he when he , Mercer , was happy did not ask B'dikkat , the answer would no longer be available when he needed it .
cm06.114.2	post-adv	Only the memory of previous hurt , bewilderment and perplexity made him sure that if he did not ask B'dikkat when he , Mercer , was happy , the answer when he needed it would no longer be available .
cm06.114.3	pre-adv	Only the memory of previous hurt , bewilderment and perplexity made him sure that the answer would no longer be available when he needed it , if he did not ask B'dikkat when he , Mercer , was happy .
cm06.117.0	ref	He spoke through the public address box built into the cabin , and his gigantic voice roared out over the empty plain , so that the pink herd of talking people stirred gently in their happiness and wondered what their friend B'dikkat might be wanting to tell them .
cm06.117.1	post-adv	He spoke through the public address box built into the cabin , and , so that the pink herd of talking people stirred gently in their happiness and wondered what their friend B'dikkat might be wanting to tell them , his gigantic voice roared out over the empty plain .
cm06.118.0	ref	When he said it , they thought it exceedingly profound , though none of them understood it , since it was simply the amount of time that Mercer had been on Shayol : `` Standard years -- eighty-four years , seven months , three days , two hours , eleven and one half minutes .
cm06.118.1	post-adv	Though none of them understood it , since it was simply the amount of time that Mercer had been on Shayol : `` Standard years -- eighty-four years , seven months , three days , two hours , eleven and one half minutes , when he said it , they thought it exceedingly profound .
cm06.118.2	post-adv	When he said it , they thought it exceedingly profound , though , since it was simply the amount of time that Mercer had been on Shayol : `` Standard years -- eighty-four years , seven months , three days , two hours , eleven and one half minutes , none of them understood it .
cm06.118.3	pre-adv	They thought it exceedingly profound , though none of them understood it , since it was simply the amount of time that Mercer had been on Shayol : `` Standard years -- eighty-four years , seven months , three days , two hours , eleven and one half minutes , when he said it .
cm06.124.0	ref	Was B'dikkat a crazy slave to his own duty or was he a man who had hopes of going back to his own planet some day , surrounded by a family of little cow-people resembling himself ?
cm06.124.1	post-adj3	Was B'dikkat a crazy slave to his own duty or was he a man who had hopes of going to his own planet back some day , surrounded by a family of little cow-people resembling himself ?
cm06.124.2	post-adj3	Was B'dikkat a crazy slave to his own duty or was he a man who had hopes of going some day to his own planet back , surrounded by a family of little cow-people resembling himself ?
cm06.124.3	post-adj3	Was B'dikkat a crazy slave to his own duty or was he a man who had hopes of going back some day to his own planet , surrounded by a family of little cow-people resembling himself ?
cm06.124.4	post-adj3	Was B'dikkat a crazy slave to his own duty or was he a man who had hopes of going , some day , back to his own planet surrounded by a family of little cow-people resembling himself ?
cm06.124.5	post-adj3	Was B'dikkat a crazy slave to his own duty or was he a man who had hopes of going to his own planet some day , back , surrounded by a family of little cow-people resembling himself ?
cm06.129.0	ref	He staggered back to the group .
cm06.129.1	post-adj2	He staggered to the group back .
cm06.133.0	ref	The years , if they were years , went by .
cm06.133.1	pre-adv	The years went by , if they were years .
cm06.135.0	ref	Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came faintly across the plain to the herd of men ; those who could talk declared it to be the breathing of Captain Alvarez .
cm06.135.1	post-adj3	Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came across the plain faintly to the herd of men ; those who could talk declared it to be the breathing of Captain Alvarez .
cm06.135.2	post-adj3	Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came to the herd of men across the plain faintly ; those who could talk declared it to be the breathing of Captain Alvarez .
cm06.135.3	post-adj3	Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came faintly to the herd of men across the plain ; those who could talk declared it to be the breathing of Captain Alvarez .
cm06.135.4	post-adj3	Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came to the herd of men faintly across the plain ; those who could talk declared it to be the breathing of Captain Alvarez .
cm06.135.5	post-adj3	Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came across the plain to the herd of men faintly ; those who could talk declared it to be the breathing of Captain Alvarez .
cm06.137.0	ref	Time stood still for these people , and their load of pleasure was so commingled with the shocks and pains of the dromozoa that the words of the Lady Da took on very remote meaning .
cm06.137.1	post-adj2	Time stood for these people still , and their load of pleasure was so commingled with the shocks and pains of the dromozoa that the words of the Lady Da took on very remote meaning .
cm06.142.0	ref	Though they saw the old-style chemical rockets lift up from the field beyond B'dikkat's cabin , they did not make plans to hide among the frozen crop of transmuted flesh .
cm06.142.1	pre-adv	They did not make plans to hide among the frozen crop of transmuted flesh , though they saw the old-style chemical rockets lift up from the field beyond B'dikkat's cabin .
cm06.148.0	ref	They could still read the opening : `` Once , I was like you , stepping out of my window at the end of day , and letting the winds blow me gently toward the place I lived in .
cm06.148.1	post-adj2	They could still read the opening : `` Once , I was like you , stepping at the end of day out of my window , and letting the winds blow me gently toward the place I lived in .
cm06.149.0	ref	Once , like you , I had one head , two hands , ten fingers on my hands .
cm06.149.1	pre-adj2	Like you , once , I had one head , two hands , ten fingers on my hands .
cn01.4.0	ref	If he had married her , he 'd have been asking for trouble .
cn01.4.1	pre-adv	He 'd have been asking for trouble , if he had married her .
cn01.10.0	ref	He found that if he was tired enough at night , he went to sleep simply because he was too exhausted to stay awake .
cn01.10.1	post-adv	He found that simply because he was too exhausted to stay awake if he was tired enough at night , he went to sleep .
cn01.10.2	pre-adv	He found that he went to sleep simply because he was too exhausted to stay awake , if he was tired enough at night .
cn01.11.0	ref	Each day he found himself thinking less often of Ann ; each day the hurt was a little duller , a little less poignant .
cn01.11.1	post-adj2	Each day he found himself thinking of Ann less often ; each day the hurt was a little duller , a little less poignant .
cn01.13.0	ref	Because the summer was unusually dry and hot , the spring produced a smaller stream than in ordinary years .
cn01.13.1	pre-adv	The spring produced a smaller stream than in ordinary years , because the summer was unusually dry and hot .
cn01.14.0	ref	The grass in the meadows came fast , now that the warm weather was here .
cn01.14.1	post-adj2	The grass in the meadows came now that the warm weather was here , fast .
cn01.17.0	ref	In any case , he had no intention of being caught asleep , so he carried his revolver in its holster on his hip and he took his Winchester with him and leaned it against the fence .
cn01.17.1	post-adj2	In any case , he had no intention of being caught asleep , so he carried his revolver on his hip in its holster and he took his Winchester with him and leaned it against the fence .
cn01.18.0	ref	He stopped every few minutes and leaned on his shovel as he studied the horizon , but nothing happened , each day dragging out with monotonous calm .
cn01.18.1	post-adv	He as he studied the horizon stopped every few minutes and leaned on his shovel , but nothing happened , each day dragging out with monotonous calm .
cn01.19.0	ref	When , in late afternoon on the last day in June , he saw two people top the ridge to the south and walk toward the house , he quit work immediately and strode to his rifle .
cn01.19.1	pre-adj2	When , on the last day in June in late afternoon , he saw two people top the ridge to the south and walk toward the house , he quit work immediately and strode to his rifle .
cn01.19.2	pre-adv	He quit work immediately and strode to his rifle , when , in late afternoon on the last day in June , he saw two people top the ridge to the south and walk toward the house .
cn01.23.0	ref	When they were closer and he saw that one was a woman , he was more puzzled than ever .
cn01.23.1	pre-adv	He was more puzzled than ever , when they were closer and he saw that one was a woman .
cn01.26.0	ref	Now he saw that both the man and woman were moving slowly and irregularly , staggering , as if they found it a struggle to remain on their feet .
cn01.26.1	post-adv	Now he saw that both the man and woman were moving slowly and irregularly , as if they found it a struggle to remain on their feet , staggering .
cn01.29.0	ref	They were dirty , their clothes were torn , and the girl was so exhausted that she fell when she was still twenty feet from the front door .
cn01.29.1	post-adv	They were dirty , their clothes were torn , and the girl was so exhausted that when she was still twenty feet from the front door she fell .
cn01.31.0	ref	The boy came on to the porch and sat down , his gaze on Morgan as if half expecting him to shoot and not really caring .
cn01.31.1	post-adv	As if half expecting him to shoot and not really caring the boy came on to the porch and sat down , his gaze on Morgan .
cn01.31.2	post-adj2	The boy came to the porch on and sat down , his gaze on Morgan as if half expecting him to shoot and not really caring .
cn01.32.0	ref	Morgan hesitated , thinking that if this was a trick , it was a good one .
cn01.32.1	pre-adv	Morgan hesitated , thinking that it was a good one , if this was a trick .
cn01.42.0	ref	Her eyes were glazed as if she did n't hear or even see him .
cn01.42.1	post-adv	Her eyes as if she did n't hear or even see him were glazed .
cn01.44.0	ref	Her face was very thin , and burned by the sun until much of the skin was dead and peeling , the new skin under it red and angry .
cn01.44.1	post-adv	Her face was until much of the skin was dead and peeling , the new skin under it red and angry very thin , and burned by the sun .
cn01.46.0	ref	It must have hurt her even to walk , for the sole was completely off her left foot and Morgan saw that it was bruised and bleeding .
cn01.46.1	post-adv	It must , for the sole was completely off her left foot and Morgan saw that it was bruised and bleeding , have hurt her even to walk .
cn01.50.0	ref	No girl would go this far to fool a man so she could kill him .
cn01.50.1	post-adv	No girl would go this far so she could kill him to fool a man .
cn01.53.0	ref	They looked a good deal alike , Morgan thought .
cn01.53.1	quote	They looked a good deal alike , thought Morgan .
cn01.56.0	ref	She drank greedily , and murmured , `` Thank you '' , as he lowered her head .
cn01.56.1	post-adv	She , as he lowered her head , drank greedily , and murmured , `` Thank you '' .
cn01.63.0	ref	`` I 'm Billy Jones '' , the boy answered .
cn01.63.1	quote	`` I 'm Billy Jones '' , answered the boy .
cn01.70.0	ref	Jones sighed as if relieved .
cn01.70.1	post-adv	As if relieved Jones sighed .
cn01.72.0	ref	`` You mean you dragged your wife all over hell 's half-acre looking for work '' ? Morgan demanded .
cn01.72.1	quote	`` You mean you dragged your wife all over hell 's half-acre looking for work '' ? demanded Morgan .
cn01.75.0	ref	`` We did n't want town work '' , Jones said .
cn01.75.1	quote	`` We did n't want town work '' , said Jones .
cn01.76.0	ref	`` This is a mighty empty country '' , Morgan said .
cn01.76.1	quote	`` This is a mighty empty country '' , said Morgan .
cn01.78.0	ref	You 'd have starved to death if you 'd missed both places '' .
cn01.78.1	post-adv	You 'd if you 'd missed both places have starved to death '' .
cn01.80.0	ref	Could you give us a job , Mr. ''
cn01.80.1	dat-np-np	Could you give a job to us , Mr. ''
cn01.83.0	ref	He was silent a moment , thinking he could use a man this time of year , and if the girl could cook , it would give him more time in the meadows , but he knew nothing about the couple .
cn01.83.1	dat-np-np	He was silent a moment , thinking he could use a man this time of year , and if the girl could cook , it would give more time in the meadows to him , but he knew nothing about the couple .
cn01.83.2	pre-adv	He was silent a moment , thinking he could use a man this time of year , and it would give him more time in the meadows , if the girl could cook , but he knew nothing about the couple .
cn01.89.0	ref	He had n't shaved for several weeks , his sparse beard giving his face a pathetic , woebegone expression .
cn01.89.1	dat-np-np	He had n't shaved for several weeks , his sparse beard giving a pathetic , woebegone expression to his face .
cn01.92.0	ref	He 'd be an idiot to let them stay he thought , but he could n't send them on , either .
cn01.92.1	quote	He 'd be an idiot to let them stay thought he , but he could n't send them on , either .
cn01.92.2	post-adj2	He 'd be an idiot to let them stay he thought , but he could n't send them either , on .
cn01.93.0	ref	`` I could use some help '' , Morgan said finally , `` but I can n't afford to pay you anything .
cn01.93.1	dat-np-np	`` I could use some help '' , Morgan said finally , `` but I can n't afford to pay anything to you .
cn01.94.0	ref	I guess you 'd better go on in the morning '' .
cn01.94.1	post-adj2	I guess you 'd better go in the morning on '' .
cn01.95.0	ref	`` We 'll work for our keep '' , the boy said eagerly .
cn01.95.1	quote	`` We 'll work for our keep '' , said the boy eagerly .
cn01.99.0	ref	`` I 'll see '' , Morgan said .
cn01.99.1	quote	`` I 'll see '' , said Morgan .
cn01.102.0	ref	`` I know '' , Jones said dejectedly .
cn01.102.1	quote	`` I know '' , said Jones dejectedly .
cn01.104.0	ref	When the meal was ready , he told Jones to wash up , and going into the front room , woke the girl .
cn01.104.1	pre-adv	He told Jones to wash up , and going into the front room , woke the girl , when the meal was ready .
cn01.107.0	ref	`` I 'm a mess '' , she said , and suddenly she was alarmed .
cn01.107.1	quote	`` I 'm a mess '' , said she , and suddenly she was alarmed .
cn01.113.0	ref	I gave you a drink and then you went to sleep '' .
cn01.113.1	dat-np-np	I gave a drink to you and then you went to sleep '' .
cn01.115.0	ref	She stared at him , her eyes wide as she thought about what he had said ; then she murmured : `` You 're very kind , Mr. Morgan .
cn01.115.1	post-adv	As she thought about what he had said she stared at him , her eyes wide ; then she murmured : `` You 're very kind , Mr. Morgan .
cn01.117.0	ref	`` I do n't have many strays coming to my front door '' , he said .
cn01.117.1	quote	`` I do n't have many strays coming to my front door '' , said he .
cn01.131.0	ref	When they were finally satisfied , Jones said , `` I think he 's going to give us work '' .
cn01.131.1	dat-np-np	When they were finally satisfied , Jones said , `` I think he 's going to give work to us '' .
cn01.131.2	pre-adv	Jones said , `` I think he 's going to give us work '' , when they were finally satisfied .
cn01.133.0	ref	When he saw the expression in her eyes , he knew he could n't send them on .
cn01.133.1	pre-adv	He knew he could n't send them on , when he saw the expression in her eyes .
cn01.137.0	ref	`` We 're not drunkards '' , she said .
cn01.137.1	quote	`` We 're not drunkards '' , said she .
cn01.139.0	ref	She helped him with the dishes , then he brought more water in from the spring before it got dark .
cn01.139.1	post-adv	She helped him with the dishes , then before it got dark he brought more water in from the spring .
cn01.141.0	ref	He said : `` You 'll feel a lot better after you have a bath .
cn01.141.1	post-adv	He said : `` You after you have a bath 'll feel a lot better .
cn01.144.0	ref	`` No , she 'll be all right '' , Jones said quickly .
cn01.144.1	quote	`` No , she 'll be all right '' , said Jones quickly .
cn01.146.0	ref	`` We 'll see '' , Morgan said .
cn01.146.1	quote	`` We 'll see '' , said Morgan .
cn01.154.0	ref	`` You 're awfully kind '' , the girl said .
cn01.154.1	quote	`` You 're awfully kind '' , said the girl .
cn01.155.0	ref	`` We 'll pay you back if you 'll let us .
cn01.155.1	post-adv	`` We if you 'll let us 'll pay you back .
cn01.157.0	ref	`` It 's all right '' , he said .
cn01.157.1	quote	`` It 's all right '' , said he .
cn01.161.0	ref	He said : `` If it 's all right with you , Mr. Morgan , I 'll sleep out here on the couch .
cn01.161.1	post-adv	If it 's all right with you , he said : `` Mr. Morgan , I 'll sleep out here on the couch .
cn01.161.2	pre-adv	He said : `` Mr. Morgan , I 'll sleep out here on the couch , if it 's all right with you .
cn01.161.3	post-adj2	He said : `` If it 's all right with you , Mr. Morgan , I 'll sleep on the couch out here .
cn01.162.0	ref	We have n't slept together since we started .
cn01.162.1	post-adv	We since we started have n't slept together .
cn01.165.0	ref	`` We got fired '' , Jones said .
cn01.165.1	quote	`` We got fired '' , said Jones .
cn01.167.0	ref	They were a pair of lost , whipped kids , Morgan thought as he went to bed .
cn01.167.1	post-adv	As he went to bed they were a pair of lost , whipped kids , Morgan thought .
cn01.167.2	quote	They were a pair of lost , whipped kids , thought Morgan as he went to bed .
cn02.2.0	ref	`` You ca n't stay here with me .
cn02.2.1	post-adj2	`` You ca n't stay with me here .
cn02.3.0	ref	It 's late and you said they 'd be here by dawn '' .
cn02.3.1	post-adj2	It 's late and you said they 'd be by dawn here '' .
cn02.5.0	ref	Gavin sank down again into his chair and began to rock .
cn02.5.1	post-adj2	Gavin sank down into his chair again and began to rock .
cn02.11.0	ref	Gavin 's lips moved so that Clayton had to stoop to catch the words .
cn02.11.1	post-adv	So that Clayton had to stoop to catch the words Gavin 's lips moved .
cn02.13.0	ref	`` He stuck with me all these years .
cn02.13.1	post-adj2	`` He stuck all these years with me .
cn02.35.0	ref	And you wanted no part of me when I had so much to give .
cn02.35.1	post-adv	When I had so much to give and you wanted no part of me .
cn02.50.0	ref	He burst from the hot confinement of the room into the cold night air .
cn02.50.1	post-adj2	He burst into the cold night air from the hot confinement of the room .
cn02.52.0	ref	When he had finished he led him and the mare to the porch .
cn02.52.1	pre-adv	He led him and the mare to the porch when he had finished .
cn02.54.0	ref	Clayton looped the reins in a knot over the veranda post and patted the warm flesh of his neck .
cn02.54.1	post-adj2	Clayton looped the reins over the veranda post in a knot and patted the warm flesh of his neck .
cn02.56.0	ref	`` You take it easy , boy '' , Clayton whispered .
cn02.56.1	dat-np-np	`` You take boy easy , to it '' , Clayton whispered .
cn02.65.0	ref	We may take her with us -- to California .
cn02.65.1	post-adj2	We may take her to California -- with us .
cn02.75.0	ref	`` I made you what you are '' , Gavin whispered .
cn02.75.1	quote	`` I made you what you are '' , whispered Gavin .
cn02.76.0	ref	`` I made you so you could stand up .
cn02.76.1	post-adv	So you could stand up `` I made you .
cn02.82.0	ref	Clayton lifted him gently into the saddle , like a child .
cn02.82.1	post-adj3	Clayton lifted him into the saddle gently , like a child .
cn02.82.2	post-adj3	Clayton lifted him like a child into the saddle , gently .
cn02.82.3	post-adj3	Clayton lifted him gently like a child , into the saddle .
cn02.82.4	post-adj3	Clayton lifted him , like a child , gently into the saddle .
cn02.82.5	post-adj3	Clayton lifted him into the saddle , like a child gently .
cn02.83.0	ref	`` I hate to leave my garden '' , Gavin said .
cn02.83.1	quote	`` I hate to leave my garden '' , said Gavin .
cn02.86.0	ref	`` It will grow again -- in California '' .
cn02.86.1	post-adj2	`` It will grow in California -- again '' .
cn02.87.0	ref	`` I loved this valley '' , he whispered huskily .
cn02.87.1	quote	`` I loved this valley '' , whispered he huskily .
cn02.88.0	ref	`` Lived alone here for three years , before any man came .
cn02.88.1	post-adv	Before any man came , `` lived alone here for three years .
cn02.88.2	post-adj3	`` Lived here alone for three years , before any man came .
cn02.88.3	post-adj3	`` Lived for three years here alone , before any man came .
cn02.88.4	post-adj3	`` Lived alone for three years here , before any man came .
cn02.88.5	post-adj3	`` Lived , for three years , alone here before any man came .
cn02.88.6	post-adj3	`` Lived here for three years alone , before any man came .
cn02.89.0	ref	Lived alone by the river .
cn02.89.1	post-adj2	Lived by the river alone .
cn02.94.0	ref	The two horses broke from the yard , from the circle of light cast by the lamp still burning in the house , into the darkness .
cn02.94.1	post-adj2	The two horses broke into the darkness from the yard , from the circle of light cast by the lamp still burning in the house .
cn02.96.0	ref	They rode at a measured pace through the valley .
cn02.96.1	post-adj2	They rode through the valley at a measured pace .
cn02.98.0	ref	The moon had sunk below the black crest of the mountains and the land , seen through eyes that had grown accustomed to the absence of light , looked primeval , as if no man had ever trespassed before .
cn02.98.1	post-adv	The moon had sunk below the black crest of the mountains and , as if no man had ever trespassed before , the land , seen through eyes that had grown accustomed to the absence of light , looked primeval .
cn02.104.0	ref	The silence oppressed him , made him bend low over the horse 's neck as if to hide from a wind that had begun to blow far away and was twisting slowly through the darkness in its slow search .
cn02.104.1	post-adv	The silence oppressed him , made as if to hide from a wind that had begun to blow far away and was twisting slowly through the darkness in its slow search him bend low over the horse 's neck .
cn02.104.2	post-adj2	The silence oppressed him , made him bend over the horse 's neck low as if to hide from a wind that had begun to blow far away and was twisting slowly through the darkness in its slow search .
cn02.106.0	ref	Then at last the darkness began to dissolve .
cn02.106.1	pre-adj2	At last then the darkness began to dissolve .
cn02.113.0	ref	They greeted the news angrily , as though they had been cheated of purpose .
cn02.113.1	post-adv	As though they had been cheated of purpose , they greeted the news angrily .
cn02.115.0	ref	He worked his tongue round and round in the hollow of his cheek and his voice came out of his throat , dry and cracked .
cn02.115.1	post-adj2	He worked his tongue in the hollow of his cheek round and round and his voice came out of his throat , dry and cracked .
cn02.122.0	ref	You see , he lied to us when he said he was leavin alone '' .
cn02.122.1	post-adv	You see , when he said he was leavin alone he lied to us '' .
cn02.128.0	ref	He would n't even dance with her at Gavin 's party .
cn02.128.1	post-adj2	He would n't even dance at Gavin 's party with her .
cn02.129.0	ref	He treats her like she was dirt .
cn02.129.1	post-adv	Like she was dirt he treats her .
cn02.130.0	ref	And you stand by like a fool and let him do it ''
cn02.130.1	post-adj2	And you stand like a fool by and let him do it ''
cn02.131.0	ref	He remembered Clayton 's mocking smile in the saloon when he had asked him what he would do if they brought their cattle to water .
cn02.131.1	post-adv	He remembered Clayton 's mocking smile in the saloon when he had asked him what he if they brought their cattle to water would do .
cn02.133.0	ref	`` You 're Gavin 's son '' , Joe Purvis had said .
cn02.133.1	quote	`` You 're Gavin 's son '' , had said Joe Purvis .
cn02.135.0	ref	`` You brought him back to this valley thinkin he would help you find your boy .
cn02.135.1	post-adj2	`` You brought him to this valley back thinkin he would help you find your boy .
cn02.137.0	ref	He made a fool of you , Lester '' .
cn02.137.1	dat-np-np	He made Lester of you , to a fool '' .
cn02.138.0	ref	He swung round to the other men -- `` We can catch him easy !
cn02.138.1	post-adj2	He swung to the other men round -- `` We can catch him easy !
cn02.140.0	ref	If we let them go , they wo n't stay away , they 'll find men to ride with them and they 'll be back .
cn02.140.1	pre-adv	They wo n't stay away , if we let them go , they 'll find men to ride with them and they 'll be back .
cn02.141.0	ref	There 's only one way they can get out now and that 's through the Gap -- if we ride hard we can take them '' .
cn02.141.1	pre-adv	There 's only one way they can get out now and that 's through the Gap -- we can take them if we ride hard '' .
cn02.145.0	ref	Cabot turned back to the men and he was drunk with the thing they would do , wild to break from the cloying warmth of the saloon into the cold of the ebbing night .
cn02.145.1	post-adj2	Cabot turned to the men back and he was drunk with the thing they would do , wild to break from the cloying warmth of the saloon into the cold of the ebbing night .
cn02.146.0	ref	He fled through the door and down the steps , running , and the men grunted and followed , pushing Lester to one side where he backed against the wall with the sleeve of his jacket raised before his eyes to shut out the light .
cn02.146.1	post-adv	He fled through the door and down the steps , running , and the men grunted and followed , pushing Lester to one side where with the sleeve of his jacket raised before his eyes to shut out the light he backed against the wall .
cn02.148.0	ref	They mounted up and rode slowly behind the others at a safe distance .
cn02.148.1	post-adj3	They mounted up and rode behind the others slowly at a safe distance .
cn02.148.2	post-adj3	They mounted up and rode at a safe distance behind the others slowly .
cn02.148.3	post-adj3	They mounted up and rode slowly at a safe distance behind the others .
cn02.148.4	post-adj3	They mounted up and rode at a safe distance slowly behind the others .
cn02.148.5	post-adj3	They mounted up and rode behind the others at a safe distance slowly .
cn02.151.0	ref	The clouds parted and hard gashes of sunlight swooped down to stain the earth with streaks of white and gold light so that the shadows of the running horses flowed like dark streams over the dazzling snow .
cn02.151.1	post-adv	The clouds parted and so that the shadows of the running horses flowed like dark streams over the dazzling snow hard gashes of sunlight swooped down to stain the earth with streaks of white and gold light .
cn02.152.0	ref	When they turned in the saddle they could see the men behind them , strung out on the prairie in a flat black line .
cn02.152.1	pre-adv	They could see the men behind them , strung out on the prairie in a flat black line when they turned in the saddle .
cn02.153.0	ref	The wind of their running was cold and wild , the horses were lathered and their manes streamed like stiff black pennants in the wind .
cn02.153.1	post-adj2	The wind of their running was cold and wild , the horses were lathered and their manes streamed in the wind like stiff black pennants .
cn02.155.0	ref	He looked over his shoulder at the thin dotting of pursuers .
cn02.155.1	post-adj2	He looked at the thin dotting of pursuers over his shoulder .
cn02.167.0	ref	California is too far , he thought .
cn02.167.1	quote	California is too far , thought he .
cn02.169.0	ref	He was too old -- when he passed up and through the corridor of pines that lined the trail he could see ahead , he was passing from life .
cn02.169.1	pre-adv	He was too old -- he was passing from life , when he passed up and through the corridor of pines that lined the trail he could see ahead .
cn03.11.0	ref	`` You are hurt '' ! She breathed .
cn03.11.1	quote	`` You are hurt '' ! breathed she .
cn03.12.0	ref	`` I never felt better in my life '' , Fiske blustered .
cn03.12.1	quote	`` I never felt better in my life '' , blustered Fiske .
cn03.14.0	ref	`` Thank you , My dear '' , he said .
cn03.14.1	quote	`` Thank you , My dear '' , said he .
cn03.19.0	ref	`` We 'll grab horses '' , Dean said .
cn03.19.1	quote	`` We 'll grab horses '' , said Dean .
cn03.22.0	ref	But it at least offered him a chance for living .
cn03.22.1	dat-np-np	But it at least offered a chance for living to him .
cn03.29.0	ref	About a dozen animals were held inside the stockade , as best Mike could make out in the moonlight .
cn03.29.1	post-adj2	About a dozen animals were held as best Mike could make out in the moonlight , inside the stockade .
cn03.31.0	ref	He handed the guard 's rifle to Fiske .
cn03.31.1	dat-np-pp	He handed Fiske the guard 's rifle .
cn03.32.0	ref	`` Dean and myself will try to cut out horses to ride '' , he said .
cn03.32.1	quote	`` Dean and myself will try to cut out horses to ride '' , said he .
cn03.36.0	ref	He added , `` If this does n't work out , the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them '' .
cn03.36.1	post-adv	If this does n't work out , he added , `` the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them '' .
cn03.36.2	pre-adv	He added , `` the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them , if this does n't work out '' .
cn03.37.0	ref	He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol .
cn03.37.1	dat-np-pp	He handed Dean the bayonet and kept the pistol .
cn03.51.0	ref	`` Running around in the moonlight almost naked and slugging a man with a rock '' ?
cn03.51.1	post-adj2	`` Running in the moonlight around almost naked and slugging a man with a rock '' ?
cn03.58.0	ref	He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol .
cn03.58.1	dat-np-pp	He handed Dean the bayonet and kept the pistol .
cn03.73.0	ref	Mike kept walking and got within arm 's reach before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch .
cn03.73.1	post-adv	Mike before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch kept walking and got within arm 's reach .
cn03.78.0	ref	Mike , off balance , managed to bat the muzzle away a moment before it exploded .
cn03.78.1	post-adv	Mike , off balance , managed a moment before it exploded to bat the muzzle away .
cn03.81.0	ref	This time it connected solidly on the man 's temple , felling him .
cn03.81.1	post-adj2	This time it connected on the man 's temple solidly , felling him .
cn03.86.0	ref	`` No , but the fat 's in the fire '' ! Mike said .
cn03.86.1	quote	`` No , but the fat 's in the fire '' ! said Mike .
cn03.87.0	ref	`` There 's no chance now of all of us getting away .
cn03.87.1	post-adj2	`` There 's no chance of all of us getting away now .
cn03.99.0	ref	The rest of us can fort up in the house and hang on until you get back .
cn03.99.1	post-adv	The rest of us can until you get back fort up in the house and hang on .
cn03.101.0	ref	Dean still hesitated , but Mike lifted him almost bodily into the saddle and thrust the reins in his hand .
cn03.101.1	post-adj2	Dean still hesitated , but Mike lifted him into the saddle almost bodily and thrust the reins in his hand .
cn03.103.0	ref	`` Favor him and save something in case you hit trouble .
cn03.103.1	post-adv	In case you hit trouble `` favor him and save something .
cn03.104.0	ref	Watch out for Apaches when it comes daylight .
cn03.104.1	post-adv	When it comes daylight watch out for Apaches .
cn03.108.0	ref	I 'll stampede the rest of these horses so they ca n't chase you '' .
cn03.108.1	post-adv	I so they ca n't chase you 'll stampede the rest of these horses '' .
cn03.109.0	ref	Dean leaned from the saddle and gave him a mighty whack on the back .
cn03.109.1	dat-np-np	Dean leaned from the saddle and gave a mighty whack on the back to him .
cn03.110.0	ref	`` McLish '' , he said as he kicked the horse into motion , `` I 'd be a mighty sad man if we never met again '' .
cn03.110.1	post-adv	`` McLish '' , as he kicked the horse into motion he said , `` I 'd be a mighty sad man if we never met again '' .
cn03.110.2	post-adv	`` McLish '' , he said as he kicked the horse into motion , `` I if we never met again 'd be a mighty sad man '' .
cn03.117.0	ref	The animals thundered away into the moonlight , heading for the ridges .
cn03.117.1	post-adj2	The animals thundered into the moonlight away , heading for the ridges .
cn03.121.0	ref	He scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings .
cn03.121.1	post-adv	He until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall .
cn03.121.2	post-adj2	He scuttled along the east wall of the stockade in shadow and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings .
cn03.124.0	ref	The guerrillas were running across the parade ground and through the rear gate in the wake of the departing horses .
cn03.124.1	post-adj2	The guerrillas were running in the wake of the departing horses across the parade ground and through the rear gate .
cn03.130.0	ref	Beyond the stockade rifles began to explode as some of the guerrillas fired at shadows that they imagined were Apaches .
cn03.130.1	post-adv	As some of the guerrillas fired at shadows that they imagined were Apaches beyond the stockade rifles began to explode .
cn03.134.0	ref	A man was standing in the open door of the lighted orderly room a few yards to Mike 's left , but he , too , suddenly made up his mind and went racing to join the confused activity at the east end of the stockade .
cn03.134.1	post-adj2	A man was standing a few yards to Mike 's left in the open door of the lighted orderly room , but he , too , suddenly made up his mind and went racing to join the confused activity at the east end of the stockade .
cn03.150.0	ref	He turned and raced across the parade ground toward the rock house .
cn03.150.1	post-adj2	He turned and raced toward the rock house across the parade ground .
cn03.157.0	ref	A bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot when he was a stride or two from safety .
cn03.157.1	post-adv	When he was a stride or two from safety a bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot .
cn03.158.0	ref	Another struck him heavily in the thigh and he went down .
cn03.158.1	post-adj2	Another struck him in the thigh heavily and he went down .
cn03.161.0	ref	The three of them floundered through the door into the interior and fell in a heap .
cn03.161.1	post-adj2	The three of them floundered into the interior through the door and fell in a heap .
cn03.163.0	ref	She crouched aside as bullets beat at the portal , chewing into the planks .
cn03.163.1	post-adv	As bullets beat at the portal , chewing into the planks she crouched aside .
cn03.167.0	ref	He hovered over her to shield her , for spent bullets were thudding against the rear walls .
cn03.167.1	post-adv	For spent bullets were thudding against the rear walls , he hovered over her to shield her .
cn03.198.0	ref	But it had missed the bone and had passed on through .
cn03.198.1	post-adj2	But it had missed the bone and had passed through on .
cn03.200.0	ref	Mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble around on it .
cn03.200.1	post-adj2	Mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble on it around .
cn04.10.0	ref	They 'll probably attack at dawn '' , Montero said .
cn04.10.1	quote	They 'll probably attack at dawn '' , said Montero .
cn04.18.0	ref	`` That was a terrible thing to do '' , I said to Oso .
cn04.18.1	quote	`` That was a terrible thing to do '' , said I to Oso .
cn04.20.0	ref	And here all the time you knew the Sioux would be using our rifles on them !
cn04.20.1	pre-adj2	And all the time here you knew the Sioux would be using our rifles on them !
cn04.22.0	ref	Oso gave me an unruffled look .
cn04.22.1	dat-np-np	Oso gave an unruffled look to me .
cn04.23.0	ref	`` Old Knife 's got the largest war party ever seen on the river '' , he said calmly .
cn04.23.1	quote	`` Old Knife 's got the largest war party ever seen on the river '' , said he calmly .
cn04.30.0	ref	Then he went on to the Cheyennes and told them that the Sioux was goin ' to move up .
cn04.30.1	post-adj2	Then he went to the Cheyennes on and told them that the Sioux was goin ' to move up .
cn04.33.0	ref	The War Department wrote Mr. Manuel a letter and said he was a hero .
cn04.33.1	dat-np-np	The War Department wrote a letter to Mr. Manuel and said he was a hero .
cn04.36.0	ref	`` But that was war '' , I said .
cn04.36.1	quote	`` But that was war '' , said I .
cn04.41.0	ref	And it 's goin ' to go on like this year after year until the white people take over this land '' .
cn04.41.1	post-adv	And it 's goin ' until the white people take over this land to go on like this year after year '' .
cn04.41.2	post-adj2	And it 's goin ' to go on year after year like this until the white people take over this land '' .
cn04.44.0	ref	Once we get over the mountains others will come along .
cn04.44.1	pre-adv	Others will come along once we get over the mountains .
cn04.48.0	ref	Before we get through he 'll have the Blackfeet hankerin ' for our hair and our goods .
cn04.48.1	pre-adv	He 'll have the Blackfeet hankerin ' for our hair and our goods before we get through .
cn04.50.0	ref	As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso 's logic , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife 's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company .
cn04.50.1	post-adv	As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife 's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company , myself agreeing with Oso 's logic .
cn04.50.2	post-adv	As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso 's logic , especially when I imagined what would if Old Knife 's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company have happened to Missy .
cn04.50.3	pre-adv	I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso 's logic , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife 's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company , as I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection .
cn04.52.0	ref	More of an agricultural nation , they have relied on their warriors only for defense and for survival in the endless wars of the plains .
cn04.52.1	post-adj2	More of an agricultural nation , they have relied only for defense and for survival in the endless wars of the plains on their warriors .
cn04.53.0	ref	Still , I was disgusted with myself for agreeing with Montero 's methods .
cn04.53.1	post-adj2	Still , I was disgusted for agreeing with Montero 's methods with myself .
cn04.56.0	ref	`` I think Montero did right '' , Amy said firmly .
cn04.56.1	quote	`` I think Montero did right '' , said Amy firmly .
cn04.65.0	ref	Gray Eyes attacked our camp just as the first pink threads stitched together the hills and the sky .
cn04.65.1	post-adv	Just as the first pink threads stitched together the hills and the sky Gray Eyes attacked our camp .
cn04.68.0	ref	He had ordered the ponies brought inside the fortified circle and had assigned Pierre and a band of picked engages the job of trying to keep them steady under fire .
cn04.68.1	dat-np-np	He had ordered the ponies brought inside the fortified circle and had assigned the job of trying to keep them steady under fire to Pierre and a band of picked engages .
cn04.73.0	ref	The worst part had been the waiting ; although we did n't expect the attack before dawn , the long cloudy night , filled with the sounds of the industrious insects , seemed endless .
cn04.73.1	pre-adv	The worst part had been the waiting ; the long cloudy night , filled with the sounds of the industrious insects , seemed endless , although we did n't expect the attack before dawn .
cn04.76.0	ref	Every time I closed my eyes , I saw Gray Eyes rushing at me with a knife .
cn04.76.1	post-adj2	Every time I closed my eyes , I saw Gray Eyes rushing with a knife at me .
cn04.77.0	ref	It was a relief when they finally came .
cn04.77.1	post-adv	When they finally came it was a relief .
cn04.80.0	ref	`` That 'll be a pleasure to see '' , the big black murmured as he stared down the barrel of his rifle .
cn04.80.1	post-adv	As he stared down the barrel of his rifle `` that 'll be a pleasure to see '' , the big black murmured .
cn04.80.2	quote	`` That 'll be a pleasure to see '' , murmured the big black as he stared down the barrel of his rifle .
cn04.91.0	ref	Next to him was a young boy I was sure had sat near me at one of the trading sessions .
cn04.91.1	post-adj2	Next to him was a young boy I was sure had sat at one of the trading sessions near me .
cn04.100.0	ref	The feathered lance was still above his head .
cn04.100.1	post-adj2	The feathered lance was above his head still .
cn04.101.0	ref	As he started to slump over , another warrior swung him onto his horse .
cn04.101.1	pre-adv	Another warrior swung him onto his horse , as he started to slump over .
cn04.103.0	ref	At the last second I dropped my sights from the bare chest and bright red circle to the chest of his pony .
cn04.103.1	post-adj2	At the last second I dropped my sights to the chest of his pony from the bare chest and bright red circle .
cn04.106.0	ref	He jerked once in the grass and lay still .
cn04.106.1	post-adj2	He jerked in the grass once and lay still .
cn04.107.0	ref	`` If you 're goin ' to kill 'em ! Kill 'em '' ! Oso growled .
cn04.107.1	pre-adv	Kill 'em , `` if you 're goin ' to kill 'em ! '' ! Oso growled .
cn04.110.0	ref	`` Lead up ! Lead up ! They 'll be back '' ! Montero was shouting .
cn04.110.1	quote	`` Lead up ! Lead up ! They 'll be back '' ! was shouting Montero .
cn04.114.0	ref	A horse screamed as it twisted from side to side in a frenzy .
cn04.114.1	post-adv	As it twisted from side to side in a frenzy a horse screamed .
cn04.114.2	post-adj2	A horse screamed as it twisted in a frenzy from side to side .
cn04.119.0	ref	He was dead before he hit the ground .
cn04.119.1	post-adv	Before he hit the ground he was dead .
cn04.124.0	ref	They grew louder as the Indians charged again .
cn04.124.1	post-adv	As the Indians charged again they grew louder .
cn04.126.0	ref	`` Gray Eyes is back , Montero said .
cn04.126.1	quote	`` Gray Eyes is back , said Montero .
cn04.129.0	ref	He was riding between two warriors , who held him erect when he started to slump .
cn04.129.1	post-adv	He was riding between two warriors , who when he started to slump held him erect .
cn04.135.0	ref	The horses were only several lengths away when he fired .
cn04.135.1	post-adv	When he fired the horses were only several lengths away .
cn04.139.0	ref	I heard the whir of an ax and a Canadian 's face burst apart in a bloody spray .
cn04.139.1	post-adj2	I heard the whir of an ax and a Canadian 's face burst in a bloody spray apart .
cn04.141.0	ref	A second leaped from his horse to the top of the bale , firing four arrows in such rapid succession it did n't seem possible they were in flight .
cn04.141.1	post-adj2	A second leaped to the top of the bale from his horse , firing four arrows in such rapid succession it did n't seem possible they were in flight .
cn04.148.0	ref	The pall of dust they raised made it difficult to see when the Aricaras charged again .
cn04.148.1	post-adv	When the Aricaras charged again the pall of dust they raised made it difficult to see .
cn04.152.0	ref	Above me a dark rider was whipping his pony with a quirt in an attempt to hurdle the bales .
cn04.152.1	post-adj2	Above me a dark rider was whipping his pony in an attempt to hurdle the bales with a quirt .
cn04.153.0	ref	Although my shot killed his horse , he rolled off the bale on top of me .
cn04.153.1	pre-adv	He rolled off the bale on top of me , although my shot killed his horse .
cn04.153.2	post-adj2	Although my shot killed his horse , he rolled on top of me off the bale .
cn04.155.0	ref	His eyes were dark , fluid , fearful , and he gave a sigh as my knife went in .
cn04.155.1	post-adv	His eyes were dark , fluid , fearful , and as my knife went in he gave a sigh .
cn04.157.0	ref	Now under me I could see him for what he really was , a boy dressed up in streaks of paint .
cn04.157.1	pre-adj2	Under me now I could see him for what he really was , a boy dressed up in streaks of paint .
cn04.159.0	ref	It was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors , old and young , wheeling and twisting their ponies frantically from side to side only to be tumbled bleeding from their saddles by the relentless slam , slam of the cruelly efficient Hawkinses .
cn04.159.1	post-adj2	It was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors , old and young , wheeling and twisting their ponies from side to side frantically only to be tumbled bleeding from their saddles by the relentless slam , slam of the cruelly efficient Hawkinses .
cn04.161.0	ref	Some gracefully soared from the backs of their wounded , screaming mounts to make one last defiant charge before the lead split their hearts or tore their guts .
cn04.161.1	post-adv	Some gracefully soared from the backs of their wounded , screaming mounts before the lead split their hearts or tore their guts to make one last defiant charge .
cn05.2.0	ref	`` I saw your fire '' , she said , speaking slowly , making an effort to control her anger .
cn05.2.1	quote	`` I saw your fire '' , said , speaking she slowly , making an effort to control her anger .
cn05.10.0	ref	An hour before , with the children asleep and nothing but the strange darkness , he would have appreciated company .
cn05.10.1	pre-adj2	With the children asleep and nothing but the strange darkness , an hour before , he would have appreciated company .
cn05.12.0	ref	`` I 'm not advising you '' , she said .
cn05.12.1	quote	`` I 'm not advising you '' , said she .
cn05.16.0	ref	And make sure it 's out when you leave in the morning '' .
cn05.16.1	post-adv	And make sure when you leave in the morning it 's out '' .
cn05.18.0	ref	It took him a long time to compose himself .
cn05.18.1	dat-np-np	It took a long time to him to compose himself .
cn05.19.0	ref	`` There 's some mistake '' , he said finally .
cn05.19.1	quote	`` There 's some mistake '' , said he finally .
cn05.21.0	ref	It 's bigger than it has to be , though I do n't see where it 's doing any harm .
cn05.21.1	post-adv	Though I do n't see where it 's doing any harm , it 's bigger than it has to be .
cn05.26.0	ref	She showed her surprise by tightening the reins and moving the gelding around so that she could get a better look at his face .
cn05.26.1	post-adv	She showed her surprise by so that she could get a better look at his face tightening the reins and moving the gelding around .
cn05.27.0	ref	It did n't seem to tell her anything .
cn05.27.1	dat-np-np	It did n't seem to tell anything to her .
cn05.30.0	ref	Then she turned back to Wilson and smiled , and he was n't quite sure what she meant by it .
cn05.30.1	post-adj2	Then she turned to Wilson back and smiled , and he was n't quite sure what she meant by it .
cn05.31.0	ref	`` You own this place '' ? She said , and her tone had softened until it was almost friendly .
cn05.31.1	post-adv	`` You own this place '' ? She said , and her tone until it was almost friendly had softened .
cn05.31.2	quote	`` You own this place '' ? said she , and her tone had softened until it was almost friendly .
cn05.39.0	ref	My father ran him off here six years ago '' .
cn05.39.1	post-adj2	My father ran him six years ago off here '' .
cn05.43.0	ref	`` Carwood did n't tell you that '' , she said .
cn05.43.1	dat-np-np	`` Carwood did n't tell that to you '' , she said .
cn05.43.2	quote	`` Carwood did n't tell you that '' , said she .
cn05.48.0	ref	He sold me a clear title .
cn05.48.1	dat-np-np	He sold a clear title to me .
cn05.49.0	ref	I have it with me , right here .
cn05.49.1	post-adj2	I have it right here , with me .
cn05.54.0	ref	Be sure it 's out when you leave .
cn05.54.1	post-adv	Be sure when you leave it 's out .
cn05.59.0	ref	`` I do n't mind washing dishes now and then '' , he said pleasantly .
cn05.59.1	quote	`` I do n't mind washing dishes now and then '' , said he pleasantly .
cn05.67.0	ref	She came down against him , and he tried to break her fall .
cn05.67.1	post-adj2	She came against him down , and he tried to break her fall .
cn05.68.0	ref	He grabbed her by the shoulders and went down on one knee , taking her weight so that some of the wind was driven out of him .
cn05.68.1	post-adv	He grabbed her by the shoulders and went down on one knee , so that some of the wind was driven out of him taking her weight .
cn05.72.0	ref	`` I ought to '' -- he said .
cn05.72.1	quote	`` I ought to '' -- said he .
cn05.79.0	ref	But a moment later he brought his horse forward into the light , and Wilson had a good look at him .
cn05.79.1	post-adj2	But a moment later he brought his horse into the light forward , and Wilson had a good look at him .
cn05.82.0	ref	`` She 's not a man , mister '' , he said .
cn05.82.1	quote	`` She 's not a man , mister '' , said he .
cn05.86.0	ref	`` Put the rifle down , Joseph '' , the girl said .
cn05.86.1	quote	`` Put the rifle down , Joseph '' , said the girl .
cn05.91.0	ref	`` You should n't be riding up here after dark , Judith '' , he said quietly .
cn05.91.1	quote	`` You should n't be riding up here after dark , Judith '' , said he quietly .
cn05.91.2	post-adj2	`` You should n't be riding after dark up here , Judith '' , he said quietly .
cn05.94.0	ref	The girl tapped the quirt impatiently against her knee and glared at him .
cn05.94.1	post-adj2	The girl tapped the quirt against her knee impatiently and glared at him .
cn05.99.0	ref	But the scar seemed to pull hard at the corner of his mouth , and his eyes were hurt and angry .
cn05.99.1	post-adj2	But the scar seemed to pull at the corner of his mouth hard , and his eyes were hurt and angry .
cn05.101.0	ref	He watched the half-breed as he turned silently .
cn05.101.1	post-adv	As he turned silently he watched the half-breed .
cn05.107.0	ref	`` He works for my father '' , the girl said , and then seemed to change her mind .
cn05.107.1	quote	`` He works for my father '' , said the girl , and then seemed to change her mind .
cn05.116.0	ref	It must have got there when you fell against me '' .
cn05.116.1	post-adv	It must when you fell against me have got there '' .
cn05.117.0	ref	She wiped it off with the sleeve of her coat .
cn05.117.1	post-adj2	She wiped it with the sleeve of her coat off .
cn05.118.0	ref	`` I 'll bet that 's as close as you 've been to a man since you were a baby '' , Wilson said .
cn05.118.1	post-adv	`` I 'll bet since you were a baby that 's as close as you 've been to a man '' , Wilson said .
cn05.118.2	quote	`` I 'll bet that 's as close as you 've been to a man since you were a baby '' , said Wilson .
cn05.119.0	ref	He saw her hand start to work down the leather thong toward the handle of the quirt , and he grabbed her wrist .
cn05.119.1	post-adj2	He saw her hand start to work toward the handle of the quirt down the leather thong , and he grabbed her wrist .
cn05.124.0	ref	I do n't know what makes you think you can get away with this kind of business , and I do n't care about that , either .
cn05.124.1	post-adj2	I do n't know what makes you think you can get with this kind of business away , and I do n't care about that , either .
cn05.135.0	ref	He watched the girl until she had gone into the trees , and waited until he could n't hear the sound of her horse any longer , then went up to where the children were sleeping .
cn05.135.1	post-adv	He until she had gone into the trees watched the girl , and waited until he could n't hear the sound of her horse any longer , then went up to where the children were sleeping .
cn05.135.2	post-adv	He until he could n't hear the sound of her horse any longer watched the girl until she had gone into the trees , and waited , then went up to where the children were sleeping .
cn05.136.0	ref	They were n't sleeping , of course , but they thought they were doing him a favor by pretending .
cn05.136.1	dat-np-np	They were n't sleeping , of course , but they thought they were doing a favor to him by pretending .
cn05.137.0	ref	He had n't shown up too well in their eyes , letting himself be browbeaten by a woman .
cn05.137.1	post-adj2	He had n't shown up in their eyes too well , letting himself be browbeaten by a woman .
cn05.138.0	ref	They expected greater things from him , regardless of how trying the circumstances , and they were disappointed .
cn05.138.1	post-adj2	They expected greater things regardless of how trying the circumstances , from him , and they were disappointed .
cn05.140.0	ref	They lay a little too stiffly , with their eyes straining to stay closed .
cn05.140.1	post-adj2	They lay with their eyes straining to stay closed , a little too stiffly .
cn05.144.0	ref	I 'll be down at the creek finishing the dishes , if you want me '' .
cn05.144.1	post-adv	I , if you want me , 'll be down at the creek finishing the dishes '' .
cn05.145.0	ref	He found the pan where he had dropped it and carried it back down to the stream .
cn05.145.1	post-adj2	He found the pan where he had dropped it and carried it down to the stream back .
cn05.149.0	ref	If she did , he could stand it better in the light .
cn05.149.1	pre-adv	He could stand it better in the light , if she did .
cn05.149.2	post-adj2	If she did , he could stand it in the light better .
cn05.150.0	ref	He scrubbed absent-mindedly at the pans and reflected on how things had turned out .
cn05.150.1	post-adj2	He scrubbed at the pans absent-mindedly and reflected on how things had turned out .
cn05.151.0	ref	That afternoon when they had pulled up in front of the broken-down ranch house , his hopes had been high .
cn05.151.1	pre-adv	That afternoon his hopes had been high , when they had pulled up in front of the broken-down ranch house .
cn05.159.0	ref	Well , the grass was there , though in some places the ground was too steep for a cow to get to it .
cn05.159.1	post-adv	Though in some places the ground was too steep for a cow to get to it , well , the grass was there .
cn05.162.0	ref	In the last analysis , though , Wilson had little cause to complain .
cn05.162.1	pre-adj2	Though , in the last analysis , Wilson had little cause to complain .
cn05.166.0	ref	And he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things would get worse before they got better .
cn05.166.1	post-adv	And he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things before they got better would get worse .
cn05.170.0	ref	Kathy was already in the wagon .
cn05.170.1	post-adj2	Kathy was in the wagon already .
cn05.185.0	ref	It was hotter once they reached the flat , and drier , but the grass was better .
cn05.185.1	post-adv	Once they reached the flat , it was hotter and drier , but the grass was better .
cn05.187.0	ref	A red-tailed hawk flew in behind them and stayed there , watching for any snakes or rabbits that they might stir up from the side of the road .
cn05.187.1	post-adj2	A red-tailed hawk flew behind them in and stayed there , watching for any snakes or rabbits that they might stir up from the side of the road .
cn05.188.0	ref	It took them an hour before they came to the first houses of Kelseyville .
cn05.188.1	dat-np-np	It took an hour to them before they came to the first houses of Kelseyville .
cn05.188.2	post-adv	Before they came to the first houses of Kelseyville it took them an hour .
cn06.3.0	ref	I went to the hall in the afternoons only , on these preliminary matters .
cn06.3.1	post-adj3	I went in the afternoons only to the hall , on these preliminary matters .
cn06.3.2	post-adj3	I went on these preliminary matters in the afternoons only , to the hall .
cn06.3.3	post-adj3	I went to the hall on these preliminary matters , in the afternoons only .
cn06.3.4	post-adj3	I went , on these preliminary matters , to the hall in the afternoons only .
cn06.3.5	post-adj3	I went in the afternoons only , on these preliminary matters to the hall .
cn06.5.0	ref	Sometimes I was aware of people moving about in the darkness .
cn06.5.1	post-adj2	Sometimes I was aware of people moving in the darkness about .
cn06.6.0	ref	I would turn away from my writing in the hope of getting a good look at them but I never quite succeeded .
cn06.6.1	post-adj2	I would turn in the hope of getting a good look at them away from my writing but I never quite succeeded .
cn06.9.0	ref	Squatting , as if waiting .
cn06.9.1	post-adv	As if waiting , squatting .
cn06.11.0	ref	Since they could see me but I not them , their presence in the hall disturbed me .
cn06.11.1	pre-adv	Their presence in the hall disturbed me , since they could see me but I not them .
cn06.12.0	ref	The clerk paid them no attention .
cn06.12.1	dat-np-np	The clerk paid no attention to them .
cn06.13.0	ref	This impressed me , until I realized how limited was his sphere of influence .
cn06.13.1	post-adv	Until I realized how limited was his sphere of influence , this impressed me .
cn06.15.0	ref	When the phone rang he answered it .
cn06.15.1	pre-adv	He answered it , when the phone rang .
cn06.19.0	ref	He spoke to me in a gruff voice , an affectation which quite belied his personality .
cn06.19.1	post-adj2	He spoke in a gruff voice , an affectation which quite belied his personality to me .
cn06.23.0	ref	When one of the men in the hall behind us spat on the floor and scraped his boot over the gob of spittle I noticed how the clerk winced .
cn06.23.1	pre-adv	I noticed how the clerk winced when one of the men in the hall behind us spat on the floor and scraped his boot over the gob of spittle .
cn06.27.0	ref	On a shelf in the office behind the counter was a small radio dialed permanently on a station which broadcast only vulgar commercials and cheap popular music .
cn06.27.1	post-adj2	On a shelf in the office behind the counter was a small radio dialed on a station which broadcast only vulgar commercials and cheap popular music permanently .
cn06.32.0	ref	When he saw me coming he turned his radio off .
cn06.32.1	pre-adv	He turned his radio off when he saw me coming .
cn06.37.0	ref	They , and the two large fans which I could dimly see as daylight filtered through their vents , down at the far end of the hall , could be turned on by a master switch situated inside the office .
cn06.37.1	post-adv	They , and the two large fans which I as daylight filtered through their vents , down at the far end of the hall could dimly see , could be turned on by a master switch situated inside the office .
cn06.40.0	ref	Now , here was something of obvious importance to me , yet when I reached for the tickets he snatched them away from my hand .
cn06.40.1	pre-adv	Now , here was something of obvious importance to me , yet he snatched them away from my hand when I reached for the tickets .
cn06.41.0	ref	He could n't afford to have anyone mess around with them , he said .
cn06.41.1	quote	He could n't afford to have anyone mess around with them , said he .
cn06.45.0	ref	Having nothing else to do except wait for my forms to be processed , I gave myself over to speculations concerning the hall itself .
cn06.45.1	post-adj2	Having nothing else to do except wait for my forms to be processed , I gave myself to speculations concerning the hall itself over .
cn06.48.0	ref	One afternoon , upon receiving permission and the necessary instructions from the clerk , I had visited the toilet adjoining the hall .
cn06.48.1	pre-adj2	Upon receiving permission and the necessary instructions from the clerk , one afternoon , I had visited the toilet adjoining the hall .
cn06.50.0	ref	For although I had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet I still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended .
cn06.50.1	pre-adv	For I still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended although I had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet .
cn06.51.0	ref	I could observe the two fans down at the end , but their size in themselves meant nothing to me as long as I had no measure of comparison .
cn06.51.1	post-adj2	I could observe the two fans down at the end , but their size in themselves meant nothing as long as I had no measure of comparison to me .
cn06.55.0	ref	This light did not penetrate very far back into the hall , and my eyes were hindered rather than aided by the dim daylight entering through the fan vents when I tried to pick out whatever might be lying , or squatting , on the floor below .
cn06.55.1	post-adv	This light did not penetrate very far back into the hall , and my eyes when I tried to pick out whatever might be lying , or squatting , on the floor below were hindered rather than aided by the dim daylight entering through the fan vents .
cn06.55.2	post-adj2	This light did not penetrate into the hall very far back , and my eyes were hindered rather than aided by the dim daylight entering through the fan vents when I tried to pick out whatever might be lying , or squatting , on the floor below .
cn06.57.0	ref	No sooner would I turn my head away from the counter before he would address me , at times quite sharply , in order to bring back my attention .
cn06.57.1	post-adv	Before he would address me , at times quite sharply , in order to bring back my attention no sooner would I turn my head away from the counter .
cn06.57.2	post-adv	No sooner would I turn my head away from the counter before he in order to bring back my attention would address me , at times quite sharply .
cn06.58.0	ref	And I had hardly finished my business in the toilet on the aforementioned occasion when the lights in that place , like the hall lights controlled from the switch in the office , flicked off and on impatiently .
cn06.58.1	post-adv	And I when the lights in that place , like the hall lights controlled from the switch in the office , flicked off and on impatiently had hardly finished my business in the toilet on the aforementioned occasion .
cn06.62.0	ref	I decided to see no more of the clerk until the processing of my papers was completed .
cn06.62.1	post-adv	I decided until the processing of my papers was completed to see no more of the clerk .
cn06.64.0	ref	I lived in a state of suspense because of it .
cn06.64.1	post-adj2	I lived because of it in a state of suspense .
cn06.68.0	ref	Although I had been inside it I had not yet seen it functioning .
cn06.68.1	pre-adv	I had not yet seen it functioning although I had been inside it .
cn06.72.0	ref	Though only a relatively short walk separated it from my own part of town , its character was wholly foreign to me .
cn06.72.1	pre-adv	Its character was wholly foreign to me , though only a relatively short walk separated it from my own part of town .
cn06.83.0	ref	I returned to the hall , despite my dislike for the clerk .
cn06.83.1	post-adj2	I returned despite my dislike for the clerk , to the hall .
cn06.84.0	ref	As I had expected , he insisted that my visits to the hall would do nothing to further the process of my application .
cn06.84.1	pre-adv	He insisted that my visits to the hall would do nothing to further the process of my application , as I had expected .
cn06.86.0	ref	At last , when I put it to him directly , the clerk was forced to admit that the delay in my case was unusual .
cn06.86.1	pre-adv	At last the clerk was forced to admit that the delay in my case was unusual , when I put it to him directly .
cn06.86.2	post-adj2	At last , when I put it directly to him , the clerk was forced to admit that the delay in my case was unusual .
cn06.87.0	ref	When I asked him what , if anything , I could do about it , he surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall .
cn06.87.1	pre-adv	He surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall , when I asked him what , if anything , I could do about it .
cn06.90.0	ref	When I went for my interview with the director I saw why .
cn06.90.1	pre-adv	I saw why when I went for my interview with the director .
cn06.91.0	ref	Although it was dark as usual I could see that the hall had only recently contained a great many people .
cn06.91.1	pre-adv	I could see that the hall had only recently contained a great many people although it was dark as usual .
cn06.94.0	ref	I had felt the draft they were making while mounting the stairs .
cn06.94.1	post-adv	I while mounting the stairs had felt the draft they were making .
cn06.102.0	ref	I was at once disappointed , although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have explained .
cn06.102.1	post-adv	Although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have explained , I was at once disappointed .
cn06.104.0	ref	He wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; they somehow made me expect to see him launch into a vaudeville tapdance routine any moment .
cn06.104.1	post-adj2	He wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; they somehow made me expect to see him launch any moment into a vaudeville tapdance routine .
cn06.105.0	ref	But he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered me a seat inside his office , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application .
cn06.105.1	dat-np-np	But he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered a seat inside his office to me , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application .
cn06.106.0	ref	I had the impression that he had read my forms , perhaps several times .
cn06.106.1	dat-np-np	I had the impression that he had read several times , perhaps to my forms .
cn06.106.2	post-adj2	I had the impression that he had read my forms , several times perhaps .
cn06.107.0	ref	He did not look at them now .
cn06.107.1	post-adj2	He did not look now at them .
cn06.108.0	ref	As he lowered himself on the chair behind his desk I wondered what this dapper , slightly ridiculous man could possibly have to do with the workings of the hall .
cn06.108.1	pre-adv	I wondered what this dapper , slightly ridiculous man could possibly have to do with the workings of the hall as he lowered himself on the chair behind his desk .
cn06.114.0	ref	What sort of men I would come into contact with , at the hall ?
cn06.114.1	post-adj2	What sort of men I would come at the hall , into contact with ?
cn06.116.0	ref	Though I doubted that he would understand me , I told the director my motives for applying .
cn06.116.1	dat-np-np	Though I doubted that he would understand me , I told my motives for applying to the director .
cn06.116.2	pre-adv	I told the director my motives for applying , though I doubted that he would understand me .
cn06.118.0	ref	This desire , I went on , growing voluble as my conviction was aroused , had mounted at such a rate recently that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing .
cn06.118.1	post-adv	This desire , I went on , as my conviction was aroused growing voluble , had mounted at such a rate recently that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing .
cn06.118.2	post-adj2	This desire , I went on , growing voluble as my conviction was aroused , had mounted recently at such a rate that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing .
cn07.5.0	ref	The man went over without sound , falling to the bare floor .
cn07.5.1	post-adj2	The man went without sound over , falling to the bare floor .
cn07.9.0	ref	He dumped me in solitary twice '' .
cn07.9.1	post-adj2	He dumped me twice in solitary '' .
cn07.13.0	ref	If you ever try anything without my orders I 'll kill you '' .
cn07.13.1	pre-adv	I 'll kill you if you ever try anything without my orders '' .
cn07.18.0	ref	They filed out through the guard-room door , into the paved square .
cn07.18.1	post-adj3	They filed through the guard-room door out , into the paved square .
cn07.18.2	post-adj3	They filed into the paved square through the guard-room door , out .
cn07.18.3	post-adj3	They filed out into the paved square , through the guard-room door .
cn07.18.4	post-adj3	They filed , into the paved square , out through the guard-room door .
cn07.18.5	post-adj3	They filed through the guard-room door , into the paved square out .
cn07.21.0	ref	They moved slowly , toward the main gate , following the wall .
cn07.21.1	post-adj2	They moved toward the main gate , slowly , following the wall .
cn07.26.0	ref	They looked up in surprise as Powers came in .
cn07.26.1	post-adv	As Powers came in they looked up in surprise .
cn07.26.2	post-adj2	They looked in surprise up as Powers came in .
cn07.28.0	ref	`` It 's Curtiss '' , he said , naming the man Rankin had hit .
cn07.28.1	quote	`` It 's Curtiss '' , said , naming he the man Rankin had hit .
cn07.35.0	ref	As he passed through it Barton shoved his gun against the man 's side .
cn07.35.1	pre-adv	Barton shoved his gun against the man 's side as he passed through it .
cn07.42.0	ref	Deliberately , with none of Rankin 's viciousness , he laid the barrel of his gun alongside the guard 's head .
cn07.42.1	pre-adj2	With none of Rankin 's viciousness , deliberately , he laid the barrel of his gun alongside the guard 's head .
cn07.49.0	ref	He had been worried that with Miller and Rankin added to the escape party they would be short .
cn07.49.1	pre-adv	He had been worried that they would be short with Miller and Rankin added to the escape party .
cn07.59.0	ref	Clyde Miller was crying softly to himself , shedding his striped suit and fumbling into the nondescript butternut pants , the worn brown shirt .
cn07.59.1	post-adj2	Clyde Miller was crying to himself softly , shedding his striped suit and fumbling into the nondescript butternut pants , the worn brown shirt .
cn07.77.0	ref	But ten years in prison had taught him realities .
cn07.77.1	dat-np-np	But ten years in prison had taught realities to him .
cn07.79.0	ref	It was all right to put a bunch of ranchers onto horses , to call them Night Riders , to set out to attack the largest mining combination the country had ever seen if all they wanted was adventure .
cn07.79.1	post-adv	If all they wanted was adventure it was all right to put a bunch of ranchers onto horses , to call them Night Riders , to set out to attack the largest mining combination the country had ever seen .
cn07.80.0	ref	But if they really hoped to succeed they needed professionals , men who knew how to use a gun against men , who would match the killers on the other side .
cn07.80.1	pre-adv	But they needed professionals , men who knew how to use a gun against men , who would match the killers on the other side , if they really hoped to succeed .
cn07.82.0	ref	`` Bury those uniforms so they wo n't be found '' .
cn07.82.1	post-adv	So they wo n't be found `` bury those uniforms '' .
cn07.83.0	ref	Then Barton touched Carl Dill 's arm and moved off , up the river bank .
cn07.83.1	post-adj2	Then Barton touched Carl Dill 's arm and moved up the river bank , off .
cn07.85.0	ref	They squatted on their heels in the deep mud and Dill found a cigar in his breast pocket , passing it over silently .
cn07.85.1	post-adj2	They squatted in the deep mud on their heels and Dill found a cigar in his breast pocket , passing it over silently .
cn07.86.0	ref	He too knew the agony of going for weeks , sometimes months without the solace of tobacco .
cn07.86.1	post-adj2	He too knew the agony of going without the solace of tobacco for weeks , sometimes months .
cn07.87.0	ref	Mitchell Barton drew in the fragrance deeply , letting the smoke lie warm and soothing in his throat for a moment before he exhaled .
cn07.87.1	post-adv	Mitchell Barton drew in the fragrance deeply , before he exhaled letting the smoke lie warm and soothing in his throat for a moment .
cn07.103.0	ref	A company of cavalry could n't come in there if two men were guarding that trail '' .
cn07.103.1	post-adv	A company of cavalry if two men were guarding that trail could n't come in there '' .
cn07.109.0	ref	When they learn you 're in the hills though , they 'll rally , do n't worry about that '' .
cn07.109.1	pre-adv	Though , they 'll rally when they learn you 're in the hills , do n't worry about that '' .
cn07.113.0	ref	Dill was silent as if he hated to answer , and Barton had a cold , sick feeling of apprehension .
cn07.113.1	post-adv	As if he hated to answer Dill was silent , and Barton had a cold , sick feeling of apprehension .
cn07.133.0	ref	Dill had come up also .
cn07.133.1	post-adj2	Dill had come also up .
cn07.136.0	ref	`` If you had n't I 'd have killed you '' .
cn07.136.1	pre-adv	I 'd have killed you `` if you had n't '' .
cn07.145.0	ref	My wife died in childbirth after I was sent away .
cn07.145.1	post-adv	After I was sent away my wife died in childbirth .
cn07.152.0	ref	It was over an hour before their escape was discovered , but still the news that Barton was free flashed across the central portion of the state .
cn07.152.1	post-adv	Before their escape was discovered it was over an hour , but still the news that Barton was free flashed across the central portion of the state .
cn07.165.0	ref	The monitors ran twenty-four hours each day .
cn07.165.1	dat-np-np	The monitors ran each day to twenty-four hours .
cn07.165.2	post-adj2	The monitors ran each day twenty-four hours .
cn07.169.0	ref	Fat showed in loose rolls beneath the shirt .
cn07.169.1	post-adj2	Fat showed beneath the shirt in loose rolls .
cn07.170.0	ref	Ten years older than Mitch Barton , he had clawed his way up from mucker in the pits to manager of the operation .
cn07.170.1	post-adj2	Ten years older than Mitch Barton , he had clawed his way from mucker in the pits to manager of the operation up .
cn07.173.0	ref	No man could have reached his spot nor held it without being ruthless , and Hague had made a virtue of ruthlessness all of his life .
cn07.173.1	dat-np-np	No man could have reached his spot nor held it without being ruthless , and Hague had made all of his life to a virtue of ruthlessness .
cn07.180.0	ref	Kodyke had appeared at the mine one day bearing a letter from Kruger .
cn07.180.1	post-adj2	Kodyke had appeared one day at the mine bearing a letter from Kruger .
cn07.188.0	ref	He broke out of Folsom last night .
cn07.188.1	post-adj2	He broke last night out of Folsom .
cn07.197.0	ref	It cost us a hundred thousand dollars and thirty days lost time to fix them .
cn07.197.1	dat-np-np	It cost a hundred thousand dollars and thirty days lost time to us to fix them .
cn07.200.0	ref	Normally Hague wasted no words , but now he found himself unable to stop their flow although he knew Kodyke was aware of all he said .
cn07.200.1	post-adv	Normally Hague wasted no words , but although he knew Kodyke was aware of all he said now he found himself unable to stop their flow .
cn08.1.0	ref	If she sensed any unusual preoccupation on the part of her mother , she did not comment upon it .
cn08.1.1	pre-adv	She did not comment upon it , if she sensed any unusual preoccupation on the part of her mother .
cn08.2.0	ref	After they had finished eating , Melissa took Sprite the kitten under her arm -- `` so that Auntie Grace can teach it about the whistle '' -- and climbed into the station wagon beside her mother .
cn08.2.1	post-adv	After they had finished eating , Melissa -- `` so that Auntie Grace can teach it about the whistle '' -- took Sprite the kitten under her arm and climbed into the station wagon beside her mother .
cn08.2.2	pre-adv	Melissa took Sprite the kitten under her arm -- `` so that Auntie Grace can teach it about the whistle '' -- and climbed into the station wagon beside her mother , after they had finished eating .
cn08.3.0	ref	She had offered to walk , but Pamela knew she would not feel comfortable about her child until she had personally confided her to the care of the little pink woman who chose to be called `` Auntie '' .
cn08.3.1	post-adv	She had offered to walk , but Pamela knew she until she had personally confided her to the care of the little pink woman who chose to be called `` Auntie '' would not feel comfortable about her child .
cn08.4.0	ref	When they reached their neighbor 's house , Pamela said a few polite words to Grace and kissed Melissa lightly on the forehead , the impulse prompted by a stray thought -- of the type to which she was frequently subject these days -- that they might never see one another again .
cn08.4.1	pre-adv	Pamela said a few polite words to Grace and kissed Melissa lightly on the forehead , the impulse prompted by a stray thought -- of the type to which she was frequently subject these days -- that they might never see one another again , when they reached their neighbor 's house .
cn08.5.0	ref	Then she turned the station wagon around and headed it back down the hill , with the village as her ostensible destination .
cn08.5.1	post-adv	Then she , with the village as her ostensible destination , turned the station wagon around and headed it back down the hill .
cn08.6.0	ref	As she drove , she thought about her plan .
cn08.6.1	pre-adv	She thought about her plan , as she drove .
cn08.9.0	ref	That mistake , she thought , had cost her dearly these past few days , and she wanted to avoid falling into any more of the traps that the mountain might set for her .
cn08.9.1	dat-np-np	That mistake , she thought , had cost these past few days dearly to her , and she wanted to avoid falling into any more of the traps that the mountain might set for her .
cn08.9.2	post-adj2	That mistake , she thought , had cost her these past few days dearly , and she wanted to avoid falling into any more of the traps that the mountain might set for her .
cn08.10.0	ref	She must be cautious so as not to alert the scheming forest .
cn08.10.1	post-adv	She so as not to alert the scheming forest must be cautious .
cn08.11.0	ref	When the station wagon drew abreast of the dusty dirt road that led up to the porch of the Culver house , Pamela turned the wheel , guiding the car to its familiar parking spot close to the house , and stopped .
cn08.11.1	pre-adv	Pamela turned the wheel , guiding the car to its familiar parking spot close to the house , and stopped , when the station wagon drew abreast of the dusty dirt road that led up to the porch of the Culver house .
cn08.17.0	ref	If she , Pamela , were being held responsible for his crimes , then hers must be the final act of expiation .
cn08.17.1	pre-adv	Then hers must be the final act of expiation , if she , Pamela , were being held responsible for his crimes .
cn08.18.0	ref	She would return this symbol to the mountain , as one pours seed back into the soil every Spring or as ancient fertility cults demand annual human sacrifice .
cn08.18.1	post-adv	She , as one pours seed back into the soil every Spring or as ancient fertility cults demand annual human sacrifice , would return this symbol to the mountain .
cn08.21.0	ref	Atonement , if atonement were possible , could only be made at that sacred , sacrificial basin .
cn08.21.1	pre-adv	Atonement could only be made at that sacred , sacrificial basin , if atonement were possible .
cn08.23.0	ref	Perhaps it was insane , Pamela thought .
cn08.23.1	quote	Perhaps it was insane , thought Pamela .
cn08.25.0	ref	But she was caught in it , and she faced the terrible possibility that , if it were a dream , it was one from which she might never awaken .
cn08.25.1	pre-adv	But she was caught in it , and she faced the terrible possibility that , it was one from which she might never awaken , if it were a dream .
cn08.32.0	ref	No wonder Melissa responded so completely to its beckoning .
cn08.32.1	post-adj2	No wonder Melissa responded to its beckoning so completely .
cn08.33.0	ref	Perhaps she had no reason to fear these trees that whispered their secrets above her head as she passed .
cn08.33.1	post-adv	Perhaps she had no reason to fear these trees that as she passed whispered their secrets above her head .
cn08.35.0	ref	Pamela felt calm and peaceful as she walked along .
cn08.35.1	post-adv	As she walked along Pamela felt calm and peaceful .
cn08.36.0	ref	The slight flutter that had disturbed the motion of her heart when she entered the forest was gone now , and even the dim groves of trees through which she occasionally passed did not reawaken her fear .
cn08.36.1	post-adv	The slight flutter that when she entered the forest had disturbed the motion of her heart was gone now , and even the dim groves of trees through which she occasionally passed did not reawaken her fear .
cn08.38.0	ref	Having persisted too long in deliberate ignorance and denial of the forces that threatened her , Pamela was relieved now to admit their potency and to be taking definite steps toward grappling with them .
cn08.38.1	post-adj2	Having persisted in deliberate ignorance and denial of the forces that threatened her too long , Pamela was relieved now to admit their potency and to be taking definite steps toward grappling with them .
cn08.40.0	ref	She did not pause to consider what she would do if her plan should fail ; she directed all of her mental and physical energy toward achieving this one goal .
cn08.40.1	post-adv	She did not pause to consider what she if her plan should fail would do ; she directed all of her mental and physical energy toward achieving this one goal .
cn08.41.0	ref	If , as she walked , her steps fumbled from time to time , she chose to ignore that omen .
cn08.41.1	pre-adv	She chose to ignore that omen , if , as she walked , her steps fumbled from time to time .
cn08.41.2	pre-adv	If , her steps fumbled from time to time , as she walked , she chose to ignore that omen .
cn08.42.0	ref	If the slope grew steeper and the groves more dim , she tried not to heed .
cn08.42.1	pre-adv	She tried not to heed , if the slope grew steeper and the groves more dim .
cn08.43.0	ref	Success depended upon maintaining her equanimity ; she must be poised and proud and unafraid in order to prove to the mountain that she was in earnest .
cn08.43.1	post-adv	Success depended upon maintaining her equanimity ; she in order to prove to the mountain that she was in earnest must be poised and proud and unafraid .
cn08.46.0	ref	Unconcerned , indifferent , unmotivated , the forest was simply there -- fighting man 's depredations with more abundant growth and man 's follies with its own musical evening laughter .
cn08.46.1	post-adj2	Unconcerned , indifferent , unmotivated , the forest was there simply -- fighting man 's depredations with more abundant growth and man 's follies with its own musical evening laughter .
cn08.47.0	ref	Red man or white man , pacifist or killer , the forest would accept them all -- knowing that it could thrive equally well on slaughter and beneficence ; knowing that its ageless mass would always dwarf the short span of time allotted to any man .
cn08.47.1	post-adj2	Red man or white man , pacifist or killer , the forest would accept them all -- knowing that it could thrive on slaughter and beneficence equally well ; knowing that its ageless mass would always dwarf the short span of time allotted to any man .
cn08.52.0	ref	If , when this was all over , she found the words to tell him about it , she wondered if he would ever understand .
cn08.52.1	pre-adv	She wondered if he would ever understand , if , when this was all over , she found the words to tell him about it .
cn08.52.2	pre-adv	If , she found the words to tell him about it , when this was all over , she wondered if he would ever understand .
cn08.53.0	ref	How could he comprehend her need when he himself was innocent ?
cn08.53.1	post-adv	How when he himself was innocent could he comprehend her need ?
cn08.58.0	ref	The mountainside grew steeper and she slipped once or twice on the smooth pine needles .
cn08.58.1	post-adj2	The mountainside grew steeper and she slipped on the smooth pine needles once or twice .
cn08.80.0	ref	The earth smelled moist and pungent as it might in a cave deprived of the cleansing effect of the sun 's rays .
cn08.80.1	post-adv	As it might in a cave deprived of the cleansing effect of the sun 's rays the earth smelled moist and pungent .
cn08.81.0	ref	She had the feeling that , under the mouldering leaves , there would be the bodies of dead animals , quietly decaying and giving their soil back to the mountain .
cn08.81.1	post-adj2	She had the feeling that , under the mouldering leaves , there would be the bodies of dead animals , quietly decaying and giving their soil to the mountain back .
cn08.81.2	dat-np-pp	She had the feeling that , under the mouldering leaves , there would be the bodies of dead animals , quietly decaying and giving the mountain back their soil .
cn08.84.0	ref	Not a breeze exactly , but a pocket of icy air that settled with a loathsome familiarity upon the deep confines of the grove , catching Pamela in a leering embrace .
cn08.84.1	post-adj2	Not a breeze exactly , but a pocket of icy air that settled upon the deep confines of the grove with a loathsome familiarity , catching Pamela in a leering embrace .
cn08.92.0	ref	It entered her body with the ghastly intimacy of an incubus , and its particles , spreading , creeping , crawling , joined themselves into steel bands that constricted her knees so tightly that they ached ; stifled her lungs so that her breath came in harsh gasps ; clutched her throat and sucked up the moisture in her mouth so that her tongue was dry and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clenched together in the rigid fixture of her jaws .
cn08.92.1	post-adv	It entered her body with the ghastly intimacy of an incubus , and its particles , spreading , creeping , crawling , joined themselves into steel bands that so that her breath came in harsh gasps constricted her knees so tightly that they ached ; stifled her lungs ; clutched her throat and sucked up the moisture in her mouth so that her tongue was dry and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clenched together in the rigid fixture of her jaws .
cn08.92.2	post-adv	It entered her body with the ghastly intimacy of an incubus , and its particles , spreading , creeping , crawling , joined themselves into steel bands that constricted her knees so tightly that they ached ; stifled her lungs so that her breath came in harsh gasps ; so that her tongue was dry and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clenched together in the rigid fixture of her jaws clutched her throat and sucked up the moisture in her mouth .
cn08.93.0	ref	She had to get away from here before this demoniac possession swallowed up the liquid of her eyes and sank into the fibers of her brain , depriving her of reason and sight .
cn08.93.1	post-adv	She had before this demoniac possession swallowed up the liquid of her eyes and sank into the fibers of her brain , depriving her of reason and sight to get away from here .
cn08.96.0	ref	She had been snared here by a vile sensuality that writhed around her throat in ever-tightening circles .
cn08.96.1	post-adj2	She had been snared by a vile sensuality that writhed around her throat in ever-tightening circles here .
cn08.97.0	ref	She could not scream , for even if a sound could take shape within her parched mouth , who would hear , who would listen ?
cn08.97.1	post-adv	She , for even if a sound could take shape within her parched mouth , who would hear , who would listen , could not scream ?
cn08.102.0	ref	She thrust forward through the shadows and the trees that resisted her and tried to fling her back .
cn08.102.1	post-adj2	She thrust through the shadows and the trees that resisted her and tried to fling her back forward .
cn08.105.0	ref	Twigs cracked loudly under her feet ; bushes swished and scratched at her slacks ; tree branches snapped as she pushed them ruthlessly away from her .
cn08.105.1	post-adv	Twigs cracked loudly under her feet ; bushes swished and scratched at her slacks ; as she pushed them ruthlessly away from her tree branches snapped .
cn08.105.2	post-adj2	Twigs cracked under her feet loudly ; bushes swished and scratched at her slacks ; tree branches snapped as she pushed them ruthlessly away from her .
cn09.2.0	ref	She began it deliberately , so that none of her words would be lost on him .
cn09.2.1	post-adv	So that none of her words would be lost on him , she began it deliberately .
cn09.3.0	ref	`` I want to tell you something Thomas DeMontez Lord .
cn09.3.1	dat-np-np	`` I want to tell something to you Thomas DeMontez Lord .
cn09.5.0	ref	But '' -- `` But it do n't matter a-tall '' , Lord supplied fondly .
cn09.5.1	quote	But '' -- `` But it do n't matter a-tall '' , supplied Lord fondly .
cn09.8.0	ref	She yanked away from him furiously .
cn09.8.1	post-adj2	She yanked furiously away from him .
cn09.22.0	ref	So I can hear you while I 'm checkin ' the car .
cn09.22.1	post-adv	So I while I 'm checkin ' the car can hear you .
cn09.25.0	ref	He waited at the car side for a moment , looking down at her expectantly .
cn09.25.1	post-adj2	He waited for a moment at the car side , looking down at her expectantly .
cn09.28.0	ref	Then , helpfully , as she merely stared at him in weary silence , `` Maybe you could write it down for me , huh ?
cn09.28.1	post-adj2	Then , helpfully , as she merely stared in weary silence at him , `` Maybe you could write it down for me , huh ?
cn09.30.0	ref	`` Aah , go on '' , she said .
cn09.30.1	quote	`` Aah , go on '' , said she .
cn09.35.0	ref	He went prone on his stomach , the better to pursue his examination .
cn09.35.1	post-adv	The better to pursue his examination , he went prone on his stomach .
cn09.39.0	ref	And he really feels that way , she thought .
cn09.39.1	quote	And he really feels that way , thought she .
cn09.44.0	ref	Here in the God-forsaken place , the westerly end of nowhere , Tom Lord looked almost insignificant , almost contemptible .
cn09.44.1	pre-adj2	In the God-forsaken place , the westerly end of nowhere here , Tom Lord looked almost insignificant , almost contemptible .
cn09.49.0	ref	He could move very quickly , she knew -LRB- although he seldom found occasion to do so -RRB- , but he was more wiry than truly strong .
cn09.49.1	post-adv	He -LRB- although he seldom found occasion to do so -RRB- could move very quickly , she knew , but he was more wiry than truly strong .
cn09.50.0	ref	And his relatively small hands and feet gave him an almost delicate appearance .
cn09.50.1	dat-np-np	And his relatively small hands and feet gave an almost delicate appearance to him .
cn09.54.0	ref	He caught her eye , came back around the car with the boot-wearer ; teetering , half-mincing walk .
cn09.54.1	post-adj3	He caught her eye , came around the car back with the boot-wearer ; teetering , half-mincing walk .
cn09.54.2	post-adj3	He caught her eye , came with the boot-wearer ; teetering , half-mincing walk around the car back .
cn09.54.3	post-adj3	He caught her eye , came back with the boot-wearer ; teetering , half-mincing walk around the car .
cn09.54.4	post-adj3	He caught her eye , came with the boot-wearer ; teetering , half-mincing walk back around the car .
cn09.54.5	post-adj3	He caught her eye , came around the car with the boot-wearer ; teetering , half-mincing walk back .
cn09.55.0	ref	Why did these yokels still wear boots , anyway , when most had scarcely sat a horse in years ?
cn09.55.1	post-adv	Why , when most had scarcely sat a horse in years , did these yokels still wear boots , anyway ?
cn09.56.0	ref	He slid in at her side , tucked a cigar into his mouth , and politely proffered one to her .
cn09.56.1	post-adj2	He slid at her side in , tucked a cigar into his mouth , and politely proffered one to her .
cn09.60.0	ref	`` This ai n't your brand , maybe '' , Lord suggested .
cn09.60.1	quote	`` This ai n't your brand , maybe '' , suggested Lord .
cn09.62.0	ref	`` I feel like getting back to town , that 's what I feel like !
cn09.62.1	post-adj2	`` I feel like getting to town back , that 's what I feel like !
cn09.64.0	ref	`` Might get there faster walkin ' '' , Lord drawled , `` seein ' as how I got a busted front spring .
cn09.64.1	post-adj2	`` Might get faster there walkin ' '' , Lord drawled , `` seein ' as how I got a busted front spring .
cn09.78.0	ref	And even with her limited knowledge of such things , she knew that the car could be repaired there ; sufficiently , at least , to get them back into town .
cn09.78.1	post-adj2	And even with her limited knowledge of such things , she knew that the car could be repaired sufficiently , at least , to get them back into town ; there .
cn09.80.0	ref	He had to depend on himself , since he was invariably miles and hours away from others .
cn09.80.1	post-adv	Since he was invariably miles and hours away from others , he had to depend on himself .
cn09.86.0	ref	`` Why , I meant what I said '' , Lord declared .
cn09.86.1	quote	`` Why , I meant what I said '' , declared Lord .
cn09.89.0	ref	Then , with a shrug of pretended indifference , she took a compact from her purse and went through the motions of fixing her make-up .
cn09.89.1	pre-adj2	With a shrug of pretended indifference , then , she took a compact from her purse and went through the motions of fixing her make-up .
cn09.91.0	ref	Otherwise , she would be baited into a tantrum -- teased and provoked until she lost control of herself , and thus lost still another battle in the maddening struggle of Tom Lord Vs. Joyce Lakewood .
cn09.91.1	post-adv	Otherwise , she would be until she lost control of herself , and thus lost still another battle in the maddening struggle of Tom Lord Vs. Joyce Lakewood baited into a tantrum -- teased and provoked .
cn09.92.0	ref	The car lurched along at a snail 's crawl , the left-front mudguard banging and scraping against the tire , occasionally scraping against the road itself .
cn09.92.1	post-adj2	The car lurched at a snail 's crawl along , the left-front mudguard banging and scraping against the tire , occasionally scraping against the road itself .
cn09.93.0	ref	Lord whistled tunelessly as he fought the steering wheel .
cn09.93.1	post-adv	As he fought the steering wheel Lord whistled tunelessly .
cn09.94.0	ref	He seemed very pleased with himself , as though some intricate scheme was working out exactly as he had planned .
cn09.94.1	post-adv	As though some intricate scheme was working out exactly as he had planned , he seemed very pleased with himself .
cn09.94.2	post-adv	He seemed very pleased with himself , as though some intricate scheme exactly as he had planned was working out .
cn09.95.0	ref	Along with this self-satisfaction , however , Joyce sensed a growing tension .
cn09.95.1	pre-adj2	However , along with this self-satisfaction , Joyce sensed a growing tension .
cn09.96.0	ref	It poured out of him like an electric current , a feeling that the muscles and nerves of his fine-drawn body were coiling for action , and that that action would be all that he anticipated .
cn09.96.1	post-adj2	It poured like an electric current out of him , a feeling that the muscles and nerves of his fine-drawn body were coiling for action , and that that action would be all that he anticipated .
cn09.99.0	ref	Tom had been laying for Aaron McBride for a long time , just waiting to catch him out of line .
cn09.99.1	post-adj2	Tom had been laying for a long time for Aaron McBride , just waiting to catch him out of line .
cn09.100.0	ref	McBride gave him his opportunity when he showed up in town with a pistol on his hip .
cn09.100.1	dat-np-np	McBride gave his opportunity to him when he showed up in town with a pistol on his hip .
cn09.100.2	post-adv	When he showed up in town with a pistol on his hip McBride gave him his opportunity .
cn09.100.3	post-adj2	McBride gave him his opportunity when he showed up with a pistol on his hip in town .
cn09.103.0	ref	Moreover , as long as the weapon was carried openly , the sheriff 's office had made no previous issue of it .
cn09.103.1	pre-adj2	As long as the weapon was carried openly , moreover , the sheriff 's office had made no previous issue of it .
cn09.105.0	ref	He demanded , when Lord confronted him .
cn09.105.1	post-adv	When Lord confronted him , he demanded .
cn09.114.0	ref	`` Well , I 'll tell you about that '' , Lord told him .
cn09.114.1	quote	`` Well , I 'll tell you about that '' , told Lord him .
cn09.116.0	ref	Do n't like to bother no one unless we have to , which I figger we do , in your case .
cn09.116.1	post-adv	Do n't like unless we have to , which I figger we do , in your case to bother no one .
cn09.130.0	ref	You do that or take you out a permit right now '' .
cn09.130.1	dat-np-np	You do that or take a permit out to you right now '' .
cn09.136.0	ref	How could he exert authority over them -- make them toe the line , as he had to -- if he knuckled under to this small-town clown ?
cn09.136.1	post-adv	How -- if he knuckled under to this small-town clown -- could he exert authority over them -- make them toe the line , as he had to ?
cn09.137.0	ref	`` I 'll get around to it a little later '' , he mumbled desperately .
cn09.137.1	quote	`` I 'll get around to it a little later '' , mumbled he desperately .
cn09.137.2	post-adj2	`` I 'll get a little later around to it '' , he mumbled desperately .
cn09.145.0	ref	Lord slugged him in the stomach , so hard that the organ almost pressed against his spine .
cn09.145.1	post-adj2	Lord slugged him so hard that the organ almost pressed against his spine , in the stomach .
cn09.146.0	ref	Then , as he doubled , gasping , vomiting the breakfast he had so lately eaten , Lord straightened him with an uppercut .
cn09.146.1	pre-adv	Then Lord straightened him with an uppercut , as he doubled , gasping , vomiting the breakfast he had so lately eaten .
cn09.152.0	ref	Why , he 's going to kill me , he thought wildly .
cn09.152.1	quote	Why , he 's going to kill me , thought he wildly .
cn09.154.0	ref	I 've given willful hurt to no man .
cn09.154.1	dat-np-pp	I 've given no man willful hurt .
cn09.156.0	ref	Beat me to death in front of a hundred people .
cn09.156.1	post-adj2	Beat me in front of a hundred people to death .
cn09.158.0	ref	He , McBride , would be cited as in the wrong , and he , Lord , would go scot-free , an officer who had only done his duty , though perhaps too energetically .
cn09.158.1	post-adv	He , McBride , would be cited as in the wrong , and he , Lord , would go scot-free , an officer who , though perhaps too energetically , had only done his duty .
cn09.160.0	ref	Fear-maddened , fleeing the lengthening shadow of death , he scrambled to his feet again .
cn09.160.1	post-adj2	Fear-maddened , fleeing the lengthening shadow of death , he scrambled again to his feet .
cn09.163.0	ref	He could not grasp that Lord had withdrawn from the fight minutes ago , and that his leaden arms were flailing at nothing but the air .
cn09.163.1	post-adj2	He could not grasp that Lord had withdrawn minutes ago from the fight , and that his leaden arms were flailing at nothing but the air .
cn09.165.0	ref	This , he was sure , was the way they would act ; laughing at a dying man , laughing as a man was beaten to death .
cn09.165.1	post-adv	This , he was sure , was the way they would act ; as a man was beaten to death laughing at a dying man , laughing .
cn09.172.0	ref	When he regained consciousness he was in Lord 's house , in the office of Doctor Lord , the deputy 's deceased father .
cn09.172.1	pre-adv	He was in Lord 's house , in the office of Doctor Lord , the deputy 's deceased father when he regained consciousness .
cn10.1.0	ref	The Brannon outfit -- known as the Slash-B because of its brand -- reached Hondo Creek before sundown .
cn10.1.1	post-adj2	The Brannon outfit -- known because of its brand as the Slash-B -- reached Hondo Creek before sundown .
cn10.3.0	ref	Two of the new hands , a Mexican named Jose Amado and a kid known only as Laredo , were picked for the first trick of riding night herd .
cn10.3.1	post-adj2	Two of the new hands , a Mexican named Jose Amado and a kid known as Laredo only , were picked for the first trick of riding night herd .
cn10.9.0	ref	The cook , Mateo Garcia , had arrived there long before the herd .
cn10.9.1	post-adj2	The cook , Mateo Garcia , had arrived long before the herd there .
cn10.18.0	ref	Tom Brannon had caught up with the outfit shortly after the Maguires joined it , which had been at midday .
cn10.18.1	post-adv	Tom Brannon shortly after the Maguires joined it , which had been at midday had caught up with the outfit .
cn10.21.0	ref	She wondered what had taken place in town , between him and his wife .
cn10.21.1	post-adj2	She wondered what had taken place between him and his wife , in town .
cn10.22.0	ref	She wished that she could talk to her mother about it .
cn10.22.1	post-adj2	She wished that she could talk about it to her mother .
cn10.24.0	ref	But her mother would rebuke her if she mentioned it , and say that it was none of her concern .
cn10.24.1	post-adv	But her mother , if she mentioned it , would rebuke her and say that it was none of her concern .
cn10.28.0	ref	Even as she called to the children , Conchita let her gaze seek Tom Brannon .
cn10.28.1	pre-adv	Conchita let her gaze seek Tom Brannon , even as she called to the children .
cn10.29.0	ref	Tomas , she called him -- as the Mexican hands did .
cn10.29.1	post-adv	As the Mexican hands did -- Tomas , she called him .
cn10.34.0	ref	He would tell her not to pry into grownups ' affairs -- as though she were a little kid like Elena !
cn10.34.1	post-adv	He -- as though she were a little kid like Elena -- would tell her not to pry into grownups ' affairs !
cn10.36.0	ref	They were sitting on their heels , rider-fashion , over by the still empty calf wagon .
cn10.36.1	post-adj3	They were sitting rider-fashion , on their heels , over by the still empty calf wagon .
cn10.36.2	post-adj3	They were sitting over by the still empty calf wagon , rider-fashion , on their heels .
cn10.36.3	post-adj3	They were sitting on their heels , over by the still empty calf wagon , rider-fashion .
cn10.36.4	post-adj3	They were sitting , over by the still empty calf wagon , on their heels , rider-fashion .
cn10.36.5	post-adj3	They were sitting rider-fashion , over by the still empty calf wagon , on their heels .
cn10.37.0	ref	Brannon was hunkered down with his broad back to the left rear wheel , with the other two facing him .
cn10.37.1	post-adj2	Brannon was hunkered down with the other two facing him , with his broad back to the left rear wheel .
cn10.43.0	ref	Finally Hernandez said , `` I could offer you advice , Tomas , but you would n't heed it '' .
cn10.43.1	dat-np-np	Finally Hernandez said , `` I could offer advice to you , Tomas , but you would n't heed it '' .
cn10.46.0	ref	Let Senora Brannon live in her father 's house for a time .
cn10.46.1	post-adj2	Let Senora Brannon live for a time in her father 's house .
cn10.47.0	ref	Give her time to miss you .
cn10.47.1	dat-np-np	Give time to miss you to her .
cn10.51.0	ref	`` She wo n't change her mind '' , Brannon said .
cn10.51.1	quote	`` She wo n't change her mind '' , said Brannon .
cn10.59.0	ref	`` In a year she 'll like living in Clayton 's house too much to come back to me '' , Brannon said flatly .
cn10.59.1	quote	`` In a year she 'll like living in Clayton 's house too much to come back to me '' , said Brannon flatly .
cn10.61.0	ref	I 've got to take Danny away from Clayton before I lose him altogether .
cn10.61.1	post-adv	I 've got before I lose him altogether to take Danny away from Clayton .
cn10.61.2	post-adj2	I 've got to take Danny from Clayton away before I lose him altogether .
cn10.66.0	ref	`` That I ca n't answer , for I ca n't imagine something like this happening to me .
cn10.66.1	post-adv	`` That I , for I ca n't imagine something like this happening to me , ca n't answer .
cn10.78.0	ref	If you take the one , you 'd better take both '' .
cn10.78.1	pre-adv	You 'd better take both , if you take the one '' .
cn10.87.0	ref	`` We 'll ride out as soon as we 've had chuck '' .
cn10.87.1	post-adj2	`` We 'll ride as soon as we 've had chuck out '' .
cn10.88.0	ref	Brannon timed it so that they rode in an hour after nightfall .
cn10.88.1	post-adv	So that they rode in an hour after nightfall Brannon timed it .
cn10.88.2	post-adj2	Brannon timed it so that they rode an hour after nightfall in .
cn10.97.0	ref	If the bluff failed and they ran into trouble , Brannon had told the others , they would withdraw -- and he would come after his son another time .
cn10.97.1	pre-adv	Brannon had told the others , they would withdraw if the bluff failed and they ran into trouble -- and he would come after his son another time .
cn10.100.0	ref	The Ramirez brothers were also along .
cn10.100.1	post-adj2	The Ramirez brothers were along also .
cn10.103.0	ref	It was dark early , because of the storm .
cn10.103.1	post-adj2	It was dark because of the storm , early .
cn10.104.0	ref	Also because of the storm , the streets of Rockfork were deserted .
cn10.104.1	pre-adj2	Because of the storm also , the streets of Rockfork were deserted .
cn10.109.0	ref	`` Probably just stepped out '' , he said .
cn10.109.1	quote	`` Probably just stepped out '' , said he .
cn10.115.0	ref	`` Not there '' , he said , getting back onto his horse .
cn10.115.1	post-adj2	`` Not there '' , he said , getting onto his horse back .
cn10.118.0	ref	They reined in there , Brannon remaining in the saddle while Hogan went to look for Jesse Macklin in the hotel dining room .
cn10.118.1	post-adv	They reined in there , while Hogan went to look for Jesse Macklin in the hotel dining room Brannon remaining in the saddle .
cn10.126.0	ref	`` He 's finished eating '' , Hogan said .
cn10.126.1	quote	`` He 's finished eating '' , said Hogan .
cn10.127.0	ref	`` Sitting with a cup of coffee now .
cn10.127.1	post-adj2	`` Sitting now with a cup of coffee .
cn10.142.0	ref	They escorted him down from the porch and through the rain to his office .
cn10.142.1	post-adj2	They escorted him to his office down from the porch and through the rain .
cn10.144.0	ref	His face was stiff with anger when they let go of his arms .
cn10.144.1	post-adv	When they let go of his arms his face was stiff with anger .
cn10.145.0	ref	He looked at each of them in turn , Brannon last of all .
cn10.145.1	post-adj2	He looked in turn at each of them , Brannon last of all .
cn10.146.0	ref	`` I 'll remember you '' , he said .
cn10.146.1	quote	`` I 'll remember you '' , said he .
cn10.177.0	ref	They crowded him in that threatening way once more , forced him to give in .
cn10.177.1	post-adj2	They crowded him once more in that threatening way , forced him to give in .
cn10.178.0	ref	Once the door was open , they crowded him inside the dark building .
cn10.178.1	pre-adv	They crowded him inside the dark building , once the door was open .
cn10.179.0	ref	He was uttering threats in a low but savage voice when they closed and padlocked the door .
cn10.179.1	post-adv	He when they closed and padlocked the door was uttering threats in a low but savage voice .
cn10.183.0	ref	He came to the edge of the veranda , peered down at them with his hand on his gun .
cn10.183.1	post-adv	He with his hand on his gun came to the edge of the veranda , peered down at them .
cn10.184.0	ref	`` Do n't try it '' , Brannon told him , dismounting and starting up the steps with his men following .
cn10.184.1	post-adv	`` Do n't try it '' , Brannon told him , with his men following dismounting and starting up the steps .
cn10.189.0	ref	They trailed him across the wide hallway to the parlor , four roughly garbed and tough-looking men who probably had never before ventured into such a house .
cn10.189.1	post-adj2	They trailed him to the parlor across the wide hallway , four roughly garbed and tough-looking men who probably had never before ventured into such a house .
cn11.6.0	ref	After walking out to his corral that morning , he 'd been amazed to see the dust puff up in front of his feet .
cn11.6.1	post-adj2	After walking that morning out to his corral , he 'd been amazed to see the dust puff up in front of his feet .
cn11.8.0	ref	He 'd mounted up immediately and raced with a revolver ready toward the spot from which he 'd estimated the shot had come .
cn11.8.1	post-adv	He 'd with a revolver ready mounted up immediately and raced toward the spot from which he 'd estimated the shot had come .
cn11.18.0	ref	William Lewis made the rounds of all who lived near him again , that August morning after a bullet landed at his feet , and once more he accused and threatened everyone .
cn11.18.1	dat-np-np	William Lewis made that August morning after a bullet landed at his feet again , to the rounds of all who lived near him , and once more he accused and threatened everyone .
cn11.18.2	post-adv	After a bullet landed at his feet William Lewis made the rounds of all who lived near him again , that August morning , and once more he accused and threatened everyone .
cn11.18.3	post-adj2	William Lewis made the rounds of all who lived near him that August morning after a bullet landed at his feet , again , and once more he accused and threatened everyone .
cn11.22.0	ref	He had his chance the very next morning , for exactly the same thing happened again .
cn11.22.1	post-adv	For exactly the same thing happened again , he had his chance the very next morning .
cn11.25.0	ref	`` Just let me meet up with that damned bushwhackin ' coward face-to-face '' !
cn11.25.1	post-adj2	`` Just let me meet up face-to-face with that damned bushwhackin ' coward '' !
cn11.29.0	ref	For the unseen , ghostlike rifleman aimed a little higher the third time .
cn11.29.1	post-adj2	For the unseen , ghostlike rifleman aimed the third time a little higher .
cn11.30.0	ref	A bullet smashed directly into the center of William Lewis ' chest .
cn11.30.1	post-adj2	A bullet smashed into the center of William Lewis ' chest directly .
cn11.34.0	ref	Rumors of the offer Tom Horn had made at the Stockgrowers ' Association meeting had leaked out by then , and as a grand jury investigation of the murder got underway , the prosecuting attorney , a Colonel Baird , ordered that the tall stock detective be summoned for questioning .
cn11.34.1	pre-adv	Rumors of the offer Tom Horn had made at the Stockgrowers ' Association meeting had leaked out by then , and the prosecuting attorney , a Colonel Baird , ordered that the tall stock detective be summoned for questioning , as a grand jury investigation of the murder got underway .
cn11.37.0	ref	Prosecutor Baird immediately assumed he was hiding out there after the shooting and began preparing an indictment .
cn11.37.1	post-adj2	Prosecutor Baird immediately assumed he was hiding out after the shooting there and began preparing an indictment .
cn11.50.0	ref	Tom Horn was soon back at work , giving his secret employers their money 's worth .
cn11.50.1	dat-np-np	Tom Horn was soon back at work , giving their money 's worth to his secret employers .
cn11.57.0	ref	`` Fred was mighty crude about the way he took in cattle '' his own hired man , Andy Ross , mentioned later .
cn11.57.1	quote	`` Fred was mighty crude about the way he took in cattle '' , mentioned his own hired man , Andy Ross later .
cn11.58.0	ref	`` Everyone knew it , but he sort of acted like he did n't care who knew it -- even after them notes came , even after he 'd heard about Lewis , even after he 'd been shot at a couple o ' times hisself '' !
cn11.58.1	post-adv	`` Everyone knew it , but -- even after them notes came , even after he 'd heard about Lewis , even after he 'd been shot at a couple o ' times hisself -- he sort of acted like he did n't care who knew it '' !
cn11.62.0	ref	Andy Ross had just started swinging an ax at his second willow when the distant blast of a rifle sounded .
cn11.62.1	post-adv	Andy Ross when the distant blast of a rifle sounded had just started swinging an ax at his second willow .
cn11.65.0	ref	`` My God , I 'm shot '' ! Powell gasped .
cn11.65.1	quote	`` My God , I 'm shot '' ! gasped Powell .
cn11.73.0	ref	Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought in for questioning immediately .
cn11.73.1	post-adj3	Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought for questioning in immediately .
cn11.73.2	post-adj3	Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought immediately for questioning in .
cn11.73.3	post-adj3	Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought in immediately for questioning .
cn11.73.4	post-adj3	Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought immediately in for questioning .
cn11.73.5	post-adj3	Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought for questioning immediately in .
cn11.75.0	ref	Later , riding in for some lusty enjoyment of the liquor and professional ladies of Cheyenne , he laid claim to the killing with the vague insinuations he made .
cn11.75.1	post-adj2	Later , riding for some lusty enjoyment of the liquor and professional ladies of Cheyenne in , he laid claim to the killing with the vague insinuations he made .
cn11.76.0	ref	`` Exterminatin ' cow thieves is just a business proposition with me '' , he 'd blandly announce .
cn11.76.1	quote	`` Exterminatin ' cow thieves is just a business proposition with me '' , 'd blandly announce he .
cn11.76.2	post-adj2	`` Exterminatin ' cow thieves is with me a business proposition just '' , he 'd blandly announce .
cn11.80.0	ref	He had lots of friends , then as always .
cn11.80.1	post-adj2	He had lots of friends , as always then .
cn11.81.0	ref	Even as he became widely known as a professional killer , nearly every cowboy and rancher in Wyoming seemed proud to call him a friend .
cn11.81.1	pre-adv	Nearly every cowboy and rancher in Wyoming seemed proud to call him a friend , even as he became widely known as a professional killer .
cn11.82.0	ref	No man 's name brought more cheers when it was announced in a rodeo .
cn11.82.1	post-adv	When it was announced in a rodeo no man 's name brought more cheers .
cn11.85.0	ref	`` Yeah , I can see that '' , the friend was forced to agree .
cn11.85.1	quote	`` Yeah , I can see that '' , was forced the friend to agree .
cn11.90.0	ref	He echoed again in soft wonder .
cn11.90.1	post-adj2	He echoed in soft wonder again .
cn11.92.0	ref	I found a trooper once the Apache had spread-eagled on an ant hill , and another time we ran across some teamsters they 'd caught , tied upside down on their own wagon wheels over little fires until their brains was exploded right out o ' their skulls .
cn11.92.1	post-adv	I found a trooper once the Apache had spread-eagled on an ant hill , and another time we ran across some teamsters they 'd until their brains was exploded right out o ' their skulls caught , tied upside down on their own wagon wheels over little fires .
cn11.98.0	ref	When Fred Powell 's brother-in-law , Charlie Keane , moved into the dead man 's home , the anonymous letter writer took no chances on Charlie taking up where Fred had left off and wasted no time on a first notice : If you do n't leave this country within 3 days , your life will be taken the same as Powell 's was .
cn11.98.1	pre-adv	The anonymous letter writer took no chances on Charlie taking up where Fred had left off and wasted no time on a first notice : If you do n't leave this country within 3 days , your life will be taken the same as Powell 's was , when Fred Powell 's brother-in-law , Charlie Keane , moved into the dead man 's home .
cn11.98.2	pre-adv	When Fred Powell 's brother-in-law , Charlie Keane , moved into the dead man 's home , the anonymous letter writer took no chances on Charlie taking up where Fred had left off and wasted no time on a first notice : your life will be taken the same as Powell 's was , if you do n't leave this country within 3 days .
cn11.106.0	ref	For three straight years , Tom Horn patrolled the southern Wyoming pastures , and how many men he killed after Lewis and Powell -LRB- if he killed Lewis and Powell -RRB- will never be known .
cn11.106.1	post-adv	For three straight years , Tom Horn patrolled the southern Wyoming pastures , and how many men -LRB- if he killed Lewis and Powell -RRB- he killed after Lewis and Powell will never be known .
cn11.111.0	ref	Rumor had it he slipped two small rocks under each victim 's head as a sort of trademark .
cn11.111.1	post-adj2	Rumor had it he slipped two small rocks as a sort of trademark under each victim 's head .
cn11.113.0	ref	One thing was certain -- his method was effective , so effective that after a time even the warning notices were often unnecessary .
cn11.113.1	post-adv	His method was effective , so effective that after a time even the warning notices were often unnecessary -- one thing was certain .
cn11.114.0	ref	The mere fact that the tall figure with the rifle and field glasses had been seen riding that way was enough to frighten three rustling homesteaders out of the Upper Laramie country in a single week .
cn11.114.1	post-adj2	The mere fact that the tall figure with the rifle and field glasses had been seen riding that way was enough to frighten three rustling homesteaders in a single week out of the Upper Laramie country .
cn11.115.0	ref	`` My reputation 's my stock in trade '' , Tom mentioned more than once .
cn11.115.1	quote	`` My reputation 's my stock in trade '' , mentioned Tom more than once .
cn11.117.0	ref	He had made himself the personification of the Devil to the homesteaders .
cn11.117.1	dat-np-np	He had made the personification of the Devil to himself to the homesteaders .
cn11.118.0	ref	But to the cattlemen who had been facing bankruptcy from rustling losses and to the cowboys who had been faced with lay-offs a few years earlier , he was becoming a vastly different type of legendary figure .
cn11.118.1	post-adj2	But to the cattlemen who had been facing bankruptcy from rustling losses and to the cowboys who had been faced a few years earlier with lay-offs , he was becoming a vastly different type of legendary figure .
cn11.119.0	ref	Such ranchers as Coble and Clay and the Bosler brothers carried him on their books as a cowhand even while he was receiving a much larger salary from parties unknown .
cn11.119.1	post-adv	Even while he was receiving a much larger salary from parties unknown such ranchers as Coble and Clay and the Bosler brothers carried him on their books as a cowhand .
cn11.119.2	post-adj2	Such ranchers as Coble and Clay and the Bosler brothers carried him as a cowhand on their books even while he was receiving a much larger salary from parties unknown .
cn11.120.0	ref	He made their spreads his headquarters , and he helped out in their roundups .
cn11.120.1	dat-np-np	He made his headquarters to their spreads , and he helped out in their roundups .
cn11.121.0	ref	In the cow camps , Tom Horn was regarded as a hero , as the same kind of champion he was when he entered and invariably won the local rodeos .
cn11.121.1	post-adv	In the cow camps , Tom Horn was regarded as a hero , as the same kind of champion when he entered and invariably won the local rodeos he was .
cn12.1.0	ref	When several minutes had passed and Curt had n't emerged from the livery stable , Brenner reentered the hotel and faced Summers across the counter .
cn12.1.1	pre-adv	Brenner reentered the hotel and faced Summers across the counter , when several minutes had passed and Curt had n't emerged from the livery stable .
cn12.3.0	ref	I 'm sure you wo n't mind doing me a small favor '' .
cn12.3.1	dat-np-np	I 'm sure you wo n't mind doing a small favor to me '' .
cn12.9.0	ref	I just want you to take a message to Diane Molinari .
cn12.9.1	dat-np-pp	I just want you to take Diane Molinari a message .
cn12.10.0	ref	Tell her to come here to the hotel '' .
cn12.10.1	post-adj2	Tell her to come to the hotel here '' .
cn12.16.0	ref	`` I do n't know , Mr. Brenner '' , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of Brenner 's plans .
cn12.16.1	quote	`` I do n't know , Mr. Brenner '' , said haltingly , beginning he to get an inkling of Brenner 's plans .
cn12.17.0	ref	`` It does n't seem quite right , telling her a thing like that .
cn12.17.1	dat-np-np	`` It does n't seem quite right , telling a thing like that to her .
cn12.21.0	ref	He turned and looked around at the lobby as though seeing things he had n't before noticed .
cn12.21.1	post-adv	He as though seeing things he had n't before noticed turned and looked around at the lobby .
cn12.21.2	post-adj2	He turned and looked at the lobby around as though seeing things he had n't before noticed .
cn12.24.0	ref	If someone were to drop a match in here , this place would go up like a haystack '' .
cn12.24.1	pre-adv	This place would go up like a haystack , if someone were to drop a match in here '' .
cn12.32.0	ref	A man like Jess would want to have a ready means of escape in case it was needed .
cn12.32.1	post-adv	A man like Jess would want in case it was needed to have a ready means of escape .
cn12.38.0	ref	He could hear horses moving around inside , and nothing else .
cn12.38.1	post-adj2	He could hear horses moving inside around , and nothing else .
cn12.42.0	ref	He moved ahead carefully , his left hand in front of him , and came to a wooden partition .
cn12.42.1	post-adj2	He moved carefully ahead , his left hand in front of him , and came to a wooden partition .
cn12.47.0	ref	It was certain now that Jess was in the house , but also , presumably , was Stacey Black .
cn12.47.1	pre-adj2	It was certain now that Jess was in the house , but presumably , also , was Stacey Black .
cn12.51.0	ref	The startled animal let out a terrified squeal and thrashed around in the stall .
cn12.51.1	post-adj2	The startled animal let out a terrified squeal and thrashed in the stall around .
cn12.52.0	ref	As Curt had hoped , the house door banged open .
cn12.52.1	pre-adv	The house door banged open , as Curt had hoped .
cn12.61.0	ref	As he crossed to the side of the stall , Curt drew his gun and clicked back the hammer .
cn12.61.1	pre-adv	Curt drew his gun and clicked back the hammer , as he crossed to the side of the stall .
cn12.66.0	ref	`` That 's the stuff '' , Curt said .
cn12.66.1	quote	`` That 's the stuff '' , said Curt .
cn12.74.0	ref	If I do n't come back in the house , Breed 's going to ''
cn12.74.1	pre-adv	Breed 's going to , if I do n't come back in the house ''
cn12.74.2	post-adj2	If I do n't come in the house back , Breed 's going to ''
cn12.77.0	ref	That long ride the four of you took must 've given him a good appetite .
cn12.77.1	dat-np-np	That long ride the four of you took must 've given a good appetite to him .
cn12.78.0	ref	Now turn around so I can see your face '' .
cn12.78.1	post-adv	So I can see your face now turn around '' .
cn12.83.0	ref	`` You can forget about Brenner , too '' , Curt said .
cn12.83.1	quote	`` You can forget about Brenner , too '' , said Curt .
cn12.83.2	post-adj2	`` You can forget too , about Brenner '' , Curt said .
cn12.91.0	ref	`` So help me , Crouch , I 'd like to kill you where you stand , but , before I do , I 'm going to hear you admit killing him .
cn12.91.1	pre-adv	`` So help me , Crouch , I 'd like to kill you where you stand , but , I 'm going to hear you admit killing him , before I do .
cn12.97.0	ref	Pistol-whipping an unarmed man might come easy to someone like Jess , but Curt could n't bring himself to do it .
cn12.97.1	post-adj2	Pistol-whipping an unarmed man might come to someone like Jess easy , but Curt could n't bring himself to do it .
cn12.98.0	ref	Apparently sensing this , and realizing that it gave him an advantage , Jess became bold .
cn12.98.1	dat-np-np	Apparently sensing this , and realizing that it gave an advantage to him , Jess became bold .
cn12.99.0	ref	`` Having all the guns makes you a big man , do n't it , Adams ?
cn12.99.1	dat-np-np	`` Having all the guns makes you a big man , do n't Adams , to it ?
cn12.100.0	ref	If we was both armed , you would n't talk so tough '' .
cn12.100.1	pre-adv	You would n't talk so tough , if we was both armed '' .
cn12.110.0	ref	`` I ai n't drawin ' against you '' , Jess said thickly .
cn12.110.1	quote	`` I ai n't drawin ' against you '' , said Jess thickly .
cn12.114.0	ref	You 're the kind of bastard who sneaks up on a man from behind and hits him with a club .
cn12.114.1	post-adj2	You 're the kind of bastard who sneaks up from behind on a man and hits him with a club .
cn12.116.0	ref	Jess stared at him without answering and let his hands fall to his sides .
cn12.116.1	post-adj2	Jess stared without answering at him and let his hands fall to his sides .
cn12.120.0	ref	He had to make Jess talk , and he had to do it before Stacey Black got curious and came to investigate .
cn12.120.1	post-adv	He had to make Jess talk , and he had before Stacey Black got curious and came to investigate to do it .
cn12.123.0	ref	`` We 'll do it another way , then '' , he said harshly .
cn12.123.1	dat-np-np	`` We 'll do another way to it , then '' , he said harshly .
cn12.123.2	quote	`` We 'll do it another way , then '' , said he harshly .
cn12.128.0	ref	Pain shot up Curt 's arm clear to the shoulder , but Jess seemed hardly aware that he had been hit .
cn12.128.1	post-adj2	Pain shot clear to the shoulder up Curt 's arm , but Jess seemed hardly aware that he had been hit .
cn12.131.0	ref	As it was , his vision blurred and for a moment he was unable to move .
cn12.131.1	pre-adv	His vision blurred , as it was , and for a moment he was unable to move .
cn12.132.0	ref	When his eyes began to focus , he saw Jess charging at him with a pitchfork .
cn12.132.1	pre-adv	He saw Jess charging at him with a pitchfork , when his eyes began to focus .
cn12.132.2	post-adj2	When his eyes began to focus , he saw Jess charging with a pitchfork at him .
cn12.135.0	ref	It gave Curt time to stagger to his feet .
cn12.135.1	dat-np-np	It gave time to stagger to his feet to Curt .
cn12.138.0	ref	By now Curt was seeing clearly again .
cn12.138.1	post-adj2	By now Curt was seeing again clearly .
cn12.141.0	ref	When his head came down , Curt grabbed him by the hair and catapulted him head first into the wall .
cn12.141.1	pre-adv	Curt grabbed him by the hair and catapulted him head first into the wall , when his head came down .
cn12.146.0	ref	He lurched drunkenly to his feet , lowered his head , and took one step away from the wall .
cn12.146.1	post-adj2	He lurched to his feet drunkenly , lowered his head , and took one step away from the wall .
cn12.147.0	ref	Curt caught him flush on the nose with a blow which started at the floor .
cn12.147.1	post-adj3	Curt caught him on the nose flush with a blow which started at the floor .
cn12.147.2	post-adj3	Curt caught him with a blow which started at the floor on the nose flush .
cn12.147.3	post-adj3	Curt caught him flush with a blow which started at the floor on the nose .
cn12.147.4	post-adj3	Curt caught him , with a blow which started at the floor , flush on the nose .
cn12.147.5	post-adj3	Curt caught him on the nose with a blow which started at the floor flush .
cn12.154.0	ref	`` It was Brenner 's idea '' , Jess mumbled , dabbing at his nose .
cn12.154.1	quote	`` It was Brenner 's idea '' , mumbled , dabbing Jess at his nose .
cn12.157.0	ref	`` You mean anyone who stood up for his rights '' , Curt said .
cn12.157.1	quote	`` You mean anyone who stood up for his rights '' , said Curt .
cn12.166.0	ref	Jess painfully got to his feet as someone rattled the door .
cn12.166.1	post-adv	As someone rattled the door Jess painfully got to his feet .
cn12.169.0	ref	`` You 're staying right here for a while .
cn12.169.1	post-adj2	`` You 're staying for a while right here .
cn12.171.0	ref	I 'm going to let him tell it to somebody else '' .
cn12.171.1	dat-np-pp	I 'm going to let him tell somebody else it '' .
cn12.174.0	ref	You 're coming along peacefully , or I 'll put a bullet in your leg '' .
cn12.174.1	post-adj2	You 're coming peacefully along , or I 'll put a bullet in your leg '' .
cn12.180.0	ref	Maybe if the marshal hears this himself , it 'll make a difference .
cn12.180.1	pre-adv	Maybe it 'll make a difference , if the marshal hears this himself .
cn13.8.0	ref	He released her reluctantly for her enthusiastic reunion with Old Hap .
cn13.8.1	post-adj2	He released her for her enthusiastic reunion with Old Hap reluctantly .
cn13.9.0	ref	`` Got a lot to tend to , but I 'll get back quick as I can '' , he assured her .
cn13.9.1	quote	`` Got a lot to tend to , but I 'll get back quick as I can '' , assured he her .
cn13.12.0	ref	So long as Sally 's pa was coming out best on the haggle , Dan did n't feel the need of putting in his two-bits ' worth .
cn13.12.1	post-adj2	So long as Sally 's pa was coming out on the haggle best , Dan did n't feel the need of putting in his two-bits ' worth .
cn13.14.0	ref	Damn it , he thought bitterly , picking up his shirt and staring at the fresh bullet hole in the sleeve .
cn13.14.1	quote	Damn it , thought bitterly , picking he up his shirt and staring at the fresh bullet hole in the sleeve .
cn13.15.0	ref	If I had n't got Nate stopped when I did , my duds 'd all be shot plumb to hell !
cn13.15.1	post-adv	If I when I did had n't got Nate stopped , my duds 'd all be shot plumb to hell !
cn13.15.2	pre-adv	My duds 'd all be shot plumb to hell , if I had n't got Nate stopped when I did !
cn13.24.0	ref	`` I know you ai n't '' ! Dan affirmed , feeling ten feet tall .
cn13.24.1	quote	`` I know you ai n't '' ! affirmed , feeling Dan ten feet tall .
cn13.25.0	ref	He moved in close , jerked the handsome , broad-brimmed beaver hat from Nate 's head and clamped it on his own .
cn13.25.1	post-adj2	He moved close in , jerked the handsome , broad-brimmed beaver hat from Nate 's head and clamped it on his own .
cn13.26.0	ref	`` Here 's a present for you '' , he said , shoving his bullet-riddled hat down over Nate 's purpling forehead .
cn13.26.1	quote	`` Here 's a present for you '' , said , shoving he his bullet-riddled hat down over Nate 's purpling forehead .
cn13.26.2	post-adj2	`` Here 's a present for you '' , he said , shoving his bullet-riddled hat over Nate 's purpling forehead down .
cn13.27.0	ref	`` Me and you 's trading hats so 's you 'll have something permanent to remember me by '' !
cn13.27.1	post-adv	`` Me and you so 's you 'll have something permanent to remember me by 's trading hats '' !
cn13.30.0	ref	Much as they had to look forward to , they did n't begrudge a moment of the time they spent seeing them go .
cn13.30.1	post-adj2	Much as they had to look to forward , they did n't begrudge a moment of the time they spent seeing them go .
cn13.33.0	ref	And now she could see him , looking uncommon handsome , standing there beside Sally Jackson and her folks in front of their trail-worn wagon .
cn13.33.1	post-adj2	And now she could see him , looking uncommon handsome , standing in front of their trail-worn wagon there beside Sally Jackson and her folks .
cn13.35.0	ref	Then , with a glory that almost wiped out the deep , downward sags in her careworn face , Matilda leaned over the wheel and shouted to Hez , who was stumbling along in the heat and the dust on the opposite side of the wagon
cn13.35.1	pre-adj2	With a glory that almost wiped out the deep , downward sags in her careworn face , then , Matilda leaned over the wheel and shouted to Hez , who was stumbling along in the heat and the dust on the opposite side of the wagon
cn13.41.0	ref	`` They ai n't even in sight '' ! She replied .
cn13.41.1	quote	`` They ai n't even in sight '' ! replied she .
cn13.41.2	post-adj2	`` They ai n't in sight even '' ! She replied .
cn13.43.0	ref	Soon they were all shouting greetings , exchanging smiles , and rejoicing to think that they were all back together again .
cn13.43.1	post-adj2	Soon they were all shouting greetings , exchanging smiles , and rejoicing to think that they were all again back together .
cn13.45.0	ref	Nor could they stop and find out about all that had happened until they made circle , tended the cattle , tethered the horses , gathered fuel , carried water , and started their cooking fires .
cn13.45.1	post-adv	Until they made circle , tended the cattle , tethered the horses , gathered fuel , carried water , and started their cooking fires nor could they stop and find out about all that had happened .
cn13.48.0	ref	The wound in his scalp was examined , pronounced healing , and well doctored with simples , before they dished up the victuals .
cn13.48.1	post-adv	The wound in his scalp , before they dished up the victuals , was examined , pronounced healing , and well doctored with simples .
cn13.49.0	ref	From then on , in keeping with the traditions they had followed since childhood , the whole group settled down to relish their food .
cn13.49.1	pre-adj2	In keeping with the traditions they had followed since childhood , from then on , the whole group settled down to relish their food .
cn13.50.0	ref	Even Sally , in spite of her gaiety and obvious welcome , followed the old taboo of `` quitting the gab when wearing the nosebag '' .
cn13.50.1	post-adv	Even Sally , in spite of her gaiety and obvious welcome , followed the old taboo of `` when wearing the nosebag quitting the gab '' .
cn13.53.0	ref	But with Bill O'Connor on the fiddle , and Gran Harrow exuberantly shouting `` Glory Be '' and `` Hallelujah '' above their united chant of the lilting old ballads , they played their quaint folk games with all the fervor and abandon of a real celebration .
cn13.53.1	pre-adv	But they played their quaint folk games with all the fervor and abandon of a real celebration , with Bill O'Connor on the fiddle , and Gran Harrow exuberantly shouting `` Glory Be '' and `` Hallelujah '' above their united chant of the lilting old ballads .
cn13.54.0	ref	`` Golly '' , Rod exclaimed to Harmony as he dutifully stood by her side among the ringed spectators , `` do n't that fiddle make you wish the Bible did n't say us Baptists ca n't dance '' ?
cn13.54.1	post-adv	`` Golly '' as he dutifully stood by her side among the ringed spectators , Rod exclaimed to Harmony , `` do n't that fiddle make you wish the Bible did n't say us Baptists ca n't dance '' ?
cn13.57.0	ref	Rod gave her a warm pat on the shoulder before he replied .
cn13.57.1	dat-np-np	Rod gave a warm pat on the shoulder to her before he replied .
cn13.57.2	post-adv	Before he replied Rod gave her a warm pat on the shoulder .
cn13.58.0	ref	`` Come spring , you 'll be kicking up your heels and feeling coltish again too , gal '' .
cn13.58.1	pre-adv	You 'll be kicking up your heels and feeling coltish again too , gal `` come spring '' .
cn13.58.2	post-adj2	`` Come spring , you 'll be kicking up your heels and feeling coltish too again , gal '' .
cn13.59.0	ref	At these words of sympathy and understanding , Harmony said generously , `` I do n't mind setting here along with Gran while you go out and join in the games '' .
cn13.59.1	post-adv	At these words of sympathy and understanding , Harmony said generously , `` I do n't mind while you go out and join in the games setting here along with Gran '' .
cn13.60.0	ref	Rod shifted his eager eyes from the milling group out in the circle long enough to reply , `` I ai n't much of a hand for Dare-Base and Farmer-in-the-Dell , but I 'd sure like to get in on the handhold and wrestles '' .
cn13.60.1	post-adj2	Rod shifted his eager eyes long enough to reply , `` I ai n't much of a hand for Dare-Base and Farmer-in-the-Dell , but I 'd sure like to get in on the handhold and wrestles '' from the milling group out in the circle .
cn13.61.0	ref	He looked down at his big hands and slowly flexed his long fingers .
cn13.61.1	post-adj2	He looked at his big hands down and slowly flexed his long fingers .
cn13.63.0	ref	With Rod on his way and Matilda visiting with Mrs. Jackson while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff , Harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to Sally .
cn13.63.1	post-adv	With Rod on his way and while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff Matilda visiting with Mrs. Jackson , Harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to Sally .
cn13.63.2	pre-adv	Harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to Sally , with Rod on his way and Matilda visiting with Mrs. Jackson while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff .
cn13.64.0	ref	And she was deeply thankful that she could see her now , out there in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' .
cn13.64.1	post-adj3	And she was deeply thankful that she could see her out there , now in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' .
cn13.64.2	post-adj3	And she was deeply thankful that she could see her in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , out there now , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' .
cn13.64.3	post-adj3	And she was deeply thankful that she could see her now , in the midst of a gay , youthful circle out there , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' .
cn13.64.4	post-adj3	And she was deeply thankful that she could see her , in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , now , out there skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' .
cn13.64.5	post-adj3	And she was deeply thankful that she could see her out there in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , now , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell '' .
cn13.70.0	ref	Out in the center of the circle the farmer , who was Dan , wasted no time when they came to the line , `` The farmer choose his wife '' .
cn13.70.1	post-adv	When they came to the line , `` The farmer choose his wife '' out in the center of the circle the farmer , who was Dan , wasted no time .
cn13.71.0	ref	With a swift swoop of his big arms , he grabbed Sally out of the circle surrounding him , and then kissed her soundly before setting her down so she could stand by his side while they jointly chose the rest of their `` outfit '' .
cn13.71.1	post-adv	With a swift swoop of his big arms , he grabbed Sally out of the circle surrounding him , and then kissed her soundly before so she could stand by his side while they jointly chose the rest of their `` outfit '' setting her down .
cn13.71.2	post-adv	With a swift swoop of his big arms , he grabbed Sally out of the circle surrounding him , and then kissed her soundly before setting her down so she while they jointly chose the rest of their `` outfit '' could stand by his side .
cn13.72.0	ref	Soon the child , the dog , the cat and even the cheese , all joined them out there in the circle .
cn13.72.1	post-adj2	Soon the child , the dog , the cat and even the cheese , all joined them in the circle out there .
cn13.73.0	ref	By now Harmony could see that most of the adults in the train were winded and resting , or else siphoned off from the games by the challenging lure of the great cliff towering above them .
cn13.73.1	post-adj2	By now Harmony could see that most of the adults in the train were winded and resting , or else siphoned by the challenging lure of the great cliff towering above them off from the games .
cn13.74.0	ref	No matter how many registry rocks they came to on this journey , each one exerted its own appeal .
cn13.74.1	post-adj2	No matter how many registry rocks they came on this journey to , each one exerted its own appeal .
cn13.75.0	ref	Even strange names seemed to make them feel closer to some kind of civilization when stumbled across out here in this wilderness .
cn13.75.1	post-adv	When stumbled across out here in this wilderness even strange names seemed to make them feel closer to some kind of civilization .
cn13.80.0	ref	Even the knowledge that she was losing another boy , as a mother always does when a marriage is made , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she had known since they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there when they were crossing those other mountains .
cn13.80.1	post-adv	Even the knowledge that she , as a mother always does when a marriage is made , was losing another boy , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she had known since they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there when they were crossing those other mountains .
cn13.80.2	post-adv	Even the knowledge that she was losing another boy , as when a marriage is made a mother always does , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she had known since they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there when they were crossing those other mountains .
cn13.80.3	post-adv	Even the knowledge that she was losing another boy , as a mother always does when a marriage is made , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she since they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there when they were crossing those other mountains had known .
cn13.80.4	post-adv	Even the knowledge that she was losing another boy , as a mother always does when a marriage is made , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she had known since when they were crossing those other mountains they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there .
cn13.82.0	ref	`` My souls ' a-gracious '' ! Gran Harrow exclaimed , watching their rippling muscles as Rod and Dan swung her up into the load .
cn13.82.1	post-adv	`` My souls ' a-gracious '' ! Gran Harrow exclaimed , as Rod and Dan swung her up into the load watching their rippling muscles .
cn13.83.0	ref	`` A body would swear I floated right up here on a cloud '' !
cn13.83.1	post-adj2	`` A body would swear I floated on a cloud right up here '' !
cn13.87.0	ref	Leaning forward in her chair , Gran nearsightedly scrutinized Dan 's face .
cn13.87.1	post-adj2	Leaning in her chair forward , Gran nearsightedly scrutinized Dan 's face .
cn13.91.0	ref	Gran peered again at the week-old blond mustache shadowing Dan 's upper lip .
cn13.91.1	post-adj2	Gran peered at the week-old blond mustache shadowing Dan 's upper lip again .
cn13.93.0	ref	The two tall brothers waited silently while their mother handed Gran her cold snack and water jug , placed the chamber pot beside her feet , and returned to her place at the front of the wagon with Alice .
cn13.93.1	dat-np-np	The two tall brothers waited silently while their mother handed her cold snack and water jug to Gran , placed the chamber pot beside her feet , and returned to her place at the front of the wagon with Alice .
cn13.93.2	post-adv	While their mother handed Gran her cold snack and water jug , placed the chamber pot beside her feet , and returned to her place at the front of the wagon with Alice the two tall brothers waited silently .
cn13.94.0	ref	`` Rheumatics worse , Pa '' ? Dan asked Hez , who had limped back from his team to hold the notched-stick chair braces in place while his boys swung up the tailgate and tied it tight at the ends .
cn13.94.1	post-adv	`` Rheumatics worse , Pa '' ? Dan asked Hez , who had limped back from his team while his boys swung up the tailgate and tied it tight at the ends to hold the notched-stick chair braces in place .
cn13.94.2	post-adj2	`` Rheumatics worse , Pa '' ? Dan asked Hez , who had limped from his team back to hold the notched-stick chair braces in place while his boys swung up the tailgate and tied it tight at the ends .
cn13.95.0	ref	`` My right leg 's stiff as a board this morning '' , he replied .
cn13.95.1	quote	`` My right leg 's stiff as a board this morning '' , replied he .
cn13.96.0	ref	`` But the sun 'll fry it out'n me onct we git to rolling '' .
cn13.96.1	post-adv	`` But the sun onct we git to rolling 'll fry it out'n me '' .
cn13.98.0	ref	Hez looked up at the high face of Emigrant Rock , official signboard for the Raft River turnoff , and gloated , `` Seems funny that them Burnsides never took time to leave their John-Henry up thar '' .
cn13.98.1	post-adj2	Hez looked at the high face of Emigrant Rock , official signboard for the Raft River turnoff up , and gloated , `` Seems funny that them Burnsides never took time to leave their John-Henry up thar '' .
cn13.99.0	ref	`` Wonder what made them hurry so '' , Rod drawled , giving Dan a sly wink .
cn13.99.1	dat-np-np	`` Wonder what made them hurry so '' , Rod drawled , giving a sly wink to Dan .
cn13.99.2	quote	`` Wonder what made them hurry so '' , drawled , giving Rod Dan a sly wink .
cn13.101.0	ref	`` From now on , Sally and me and her folks aim to give you our turn when it comes up and fall in behind you and Rod 's outfit '' .
cn13.101.1	dat-np-np	`` From now on , Sally and me and her folks aim to give our turn to you when it comes up and fall in behind you and Rod 's outfit '' .
cn13.101.2	post-adv	`` From now on , Sally and me and her folks aim to when it comes up give you our turn and fall in behind you and Rod 's outfit '' .
cn13.102.0	ref	`` Ai n't no sense you eating our dust '' , Rod protested .
cn13.102.1	quote	`` Ai n't no sense you eating our dust '' , protested Rod .
cn13.103.0	ref	`` Sally and her ma want to trade off on account of Harmony being so far along '' , Dan explained .
cn13.103.1	quote	`` Sally and her ma want to trade off on account of Harmony being so far along '' , explained Dan .
cn13.104.0	ref	`` Jackson recruited his critters , and him and me fixed up his wagon while we was waiting for you to catch up .
cn13.104.1	post-adv	`` Jackson recruited his critters , and while we was waiting for you to catch up him and me fixed up his wagon .
cn13.106.0	ref	Besides , 't- ai n't no more 'n right for me to follow with my black oxen , so 's I can unhook and pull up fast if either of you get in a pinch '' .
cn13.106.1	post-adv	So 's I can unhook and pull up fast if either of you get in a pinch , besides , 't- ai n't no more 'n right for me to follow with my black oxen '' .
cn13.106.2	post-adv	Besides , 't- ai n't no more 'n right for me to follow with my black oxen , so 's I if either of you get in a pinch can unhook and pull up fast '' .
cn13.108.0	ref	`` Reckon ye 're right , Dan '' , Hez called back over his shoulder .
cn13.108.1	quote	`` Reckon ye 're right , Dan '' , called Hez back over his shoulder .
cn13.108.2	post-adj2	`` Reckon ye 're right , Dan '' , Hez called over his shoulder back .
cn13.110.0	ref	Rod looked apprehensively ahead at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge .
cn13.110.1	post-adj3	Rod looked ahead apprehensively at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge .
cn13.110.2	post-adj3	Rod looked at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge ahead apprehensively .
cn13.110.3	post-adj3	Rod looked apprehensively at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge ahead .
cn13.110.4	post-adj3	Rod looked at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge apprehensively ahead .
cn13.110.5	post-adj3	Rod looked ahead at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge apprehensively .
cn13.111.0	ref	`` We 'll double teams zigzagging up the mountain , Harmony '' , he spoke reassuringly , concerned by the pinched look around her mouth .
cn13.111.1	quote	`` We 'll double teams zigzagging up the mountain , Harmony '' , spoke reassuringly , concerned he by the pinched look around her mouth .
cn13.112.0	ref	`` Like enough we 'll all be up on top by sundown '' .
cn13.112.1	post-adj2	`` Like enough we 'll all be by sundown up on top '' .
cn13.114.0	ref	Before Harmony had a chance to reply , Rod cracked his long whip over his thin oxen 's backs .
cn13.114.1	pre-adv	Rod cracked his long whip over his thin oxen 's backs , before Harmony had a chance to reply .
cn14.1.0	ref	While no larger than Dutch Springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous .
cn14.1.1	pre-adv	This mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous , while no larger than Dutch Springs .
cn14.3.0	ref	Although they were forced to maintain a sharper watch , this activity enabled them to ride in and rack their broncs without any particular attention being paid them .
cn14.3.1	pre-adv	This activity enabled them to ride in and rack their broncs without any particular attention being paid them , although they were forced to maintain a sharper watch .
cn14.4.0	ref	`` Gyp 'll be holdin ' forth in some bar if he 's here at all '' , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs .
cn14.4.1	post-adv	`` Gyp 'll if he 's here at all be holdin ' forth in some bar '' , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs .
cn14.4.2	post-adv	`` Gyp 'll be holdin ' forth in some bar if he 's here at all '' , Cobb declared , as they stretched their legs glancing along the street .
cn14.4.3	quote	`` Gyp 'll be holdin ' forth in some bar if he 's here at all '' , declared , glancing Cobb along the street as they stretched their legs .
cn14.4.4	post-adj2	`` Gyp 'll be holdin ' in some bar forth if he 's here at all '' , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs .
cn14.7.0	ref	`` Take one side of the street , and I 'll take the other '' , he proposed .
cn14.7.1	quote	`` Take one side of the street , and I 'll take the other '' , proposed he .
cn14.8.0	ref	`` If you spot Carmer give a yell before you move in '' .
cn14.8.1	post-adv	Before you move in `` if you spot Carmer give a yell '' .
cn14.8.2	pre-adv	Give a yell before you move in `` if you spot Carmer '' .
cn14.14.0	ref	Suddenly it seemed to him insane that they might hope to locate Gyp Carmer so casually , even were he to prove the thief .
cn14.14.1	post-adv	Even were he to prove the thief , suddenly it seemed to him insane that they might hope to locate Gyp Carmer so casually .
cn14.15.0	ref	He tramped out of the Miners Rest with his hopes plummeting , and headed doggedly for the Palace Saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street .
cn14.15.1	post-adj2	He tramped with his hopes plummeting out of the Miners Rest , and headed doggedly for the Palace Saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street .
cn14.16.0	ref	The Palace was an elaborate establishment , built practically on stilts in front , with long flights of wooden steps running up to the porch .
cn14.16.1	post-adj2	The Palace was an elaborate establishment , built in front practically on stilts , with long flights of wooden steps running up to the porch .
cn14.17.0	ref	Behind its ornate facade the notorious dive clung like a bird 's nest to the rocky ribs of the canyonside .
cn14.17.1	post-adj2	Behind its ornate facade the notorious dive clung to the rocky ribs of the canyonside like a bird 's nest .
cn14.18.0	ref	Russ ran up the steps quickly to the plank porch .
cn14.18.1	post-adj3	Russ ran quickly up the steps to the plank porch .
cn14.18.2	post-adj3	Russ ran to the plank porch quickly up the steps .
cn14.18.3	post-adj3	Russ ran up the steps to the plank porch quickly .
cn14.18.4	post-adj3	Russ ran to the plank porch up the steps quickly .
cn14.18.5	post-adj3	Russ ran quickly to the plank porch up the steps .
cn14.28.0	ref	As luck had it , he had not gone twenty feet in the street before Pat appeared .
cn14.28.1	post-adv	As luck had it , he before Pat appeared had not gone twenty feet in the street .
cn14.28.2	pre-adv	He had not gone twenty feet in the street before Pat appeared , as luck had it .
cn14.31.0	ref	`` He 's there '' , he got out tersely , curbing his rising excitement .
cn14.31.1	quote	`` He 's there '' , got out tersely , curbing he his rising excitement .
cn14.32.0	ref	Hitching his cartridge belt around , Pat glanced upward briefly at the Palace and started that way with Cobb at his side .
cn14.32.1	post-adv	Hitching his cartridge belt around , Pat with Cobb at his side glanced upward briefly at the Palace and started that way .
cn14.34.0	ref	Pat pushed through first .
cn14.34.1	post-adj2	Pat pushed first through .
cn14.35.0	ref	Forced behind him momentarily , Russ followed at once and halted two steps inside .
cn14.35.1	post-adj2	Forced momentarily behind him , Russ followed at once and halted two steps inside .
cn14.37.0	ref	While five minutes ago the place had presented a scene of easy revelry , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure , it was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday .
cn14.37.1	post-adv	While five minutes ago the place , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure , had presented a scene of easy revelry , it was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday .
cn14.37.2	pre-adv	It was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday , while five minutes ago the place had presented a scene of easy revelry , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure .
cn14.39.0	ref	A man knocked the roulette ball about idly in its track , and another dozed at one of the card tables .
cn14.39.1	post-adj2	A man knocked the roulette ball about in its track idly , and another dozed at one of the card tables .
cn14.40.0	ref	Two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass .
cn14.40.1	post-adv	With their heads together two men murmured at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass .
cn14.40.2	post-adv	While the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass , two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar .
cn14.41.0	ref	Looking the setup over , Stevens started coolly for the rear of the place .
cn14.41.1	post-adj2	Looking the setup over , Stevens started for the rear of the place coolly .
cn14.51.0	ref	Small rooms , probably for cards , opened off on either side .
cn14.51.1	post-adj2	Small rooms , probably for cards , opened on either side off .
cn14.52.0	ref	All the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that Stevens made his way with Russ close at his shoulder .
cn14.52.1	post-adv	All the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that with Russ close at his shoulder Stevens made his way .
cn14.52.2	post-adj2	All the doors were open except one at this hour , and it was toward this that Stevens made his way with Russ close at his shoulder .
cn14.55.0	ref	Pat saw Gyp Carmer staggering forward , a half-filled bottle upraised as if to strike .
cn14.55.1	post-adv	Pat saw Gyp Carmer staggering forward , as if to strike a half-filled bottle upraised .
cn14.61.0	ref	Russ gave him a brutal thrust that tumbled him over flat on his stomach .
cn14.61.1	dat-np-np	Russ gave a brutal thrust that tumbled him over flat on his stomach to him .
cn14.64.0	ref	I 've drawn his fangs '' , he snapped .
cn14.64.1	quote	I 've drawn his fangs '' , snapped he .
cn14.66.0	ref	If we have to we 'll take him apart and see what he 's made of '' !
cn14.66.1	pre-adv	We 'll take him apart and see what he 's made of if we have to '' !
cn14.69.0	ref	Stevens was grunting over the last empty pocket when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer 's hat , which had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away when he first fell .
cn14.69.1	post-adv	Stevens when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer 's hat , which had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away when he first fell was grunting over the last empty pocket .
cn14.69.2	post-adv	Stevens was grunting over the last empty pocket when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer 's hat , which when he first fell had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away .
cn14.80.0	ref	Russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come by honestly .
cn14.80.1	post-adj2	Russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come honestly by .
cn14.82.0	ref	`` It 's within a hundred of what Crip had '' , he declared .
cn14.82.1	quote	`` It 's within a hundred of what Crip had '' , declared he .
cn14.84.0	ref	Handing the money over , Russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs as if ridding himself of something unclean .
cn14.84.1	post-adv	As if ridding himself of something unclean handing the money over , Russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs .
cn14.87.0	ref	Leaving the card room , they moved back through the Palace the way they had come .
cn14.87.1	post-adj2	Leaving the card room , they moved through the Palace back the way they had come .
cn14.90.0	ref	He and Cobb clattered down the high steps to the street .
cn14.90.1	post-adj2	He and Cobb clattered to the street down the high steps .
cn14.91.0	ref	Neither spoke till they reached their horses .
cn14.91.1	post-adv	Till they reached their horses neither spoke .
cn14.99.0	ref	`` I 'll shove along home '' .
cn14.99.1	post-adj2	`` I 'll shove home along '' .
cn14.102.0	ref	`` You owe it to Penny to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , really '' , he observed mildly .
cn14.102.1	dat-np-np	`` You owe it to Penny to give a chance to explain that she was defending you to her , really '' , he observed mildly .
cn14.102.2	quote	`` You owe it to Penny to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , really '' , observed he mildly .
cn14.102.3	post-adj2	`` You owe it really to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , to Penny '' , he observed mildly .
cn14.103.0	ref	`` Old Crip was n't '' , retorted Cobb tartly .
cn14.103.1	iquote	`` Old Crip was n't '' , Cobb retorted tartly .
cn14.104.0	ref	`` He 'll know when you tell him .
cn14.104.1	post-adv	`` He when you tell him 'll know .
cn14.108.0	ref	`` You 're the doctor '' , he returned with a smile .
cn14.108.1	quote	`` You 're the doctor '' , returned he with a smile .
cn14.110.0	ref	`` You do n't have to tell me '' , flashed Cobb .
cn14.110.1	iquote	`` You do n't have to tell me '' , Cobb flashed .
cn14.111.0	ref	Giving the other a dark look , he hauled his bronc around and trotted down off the street .
cn14.111.1	dat-np-np	Giving a dark look to the other , he hauled his bronc around and trotted down off the street .
cn14.113.0	ref	At the first restaurant he sensibly pulled up to go in for his dinner , and as a consequence did not see Cobb strike the open range at the mouth of the canyon and head straight across the swells for Antler .
cn14.113.1	post-adj2	At the first restaurant he sensibly pulled up to go for his dinner in , and as a consequence did not see Cobb strike the open range at the mouth of the canyon and head straight across the swells for Antler .
cn14.115.0	ref	`` Penny 's always glad to see me over there '' , he mused bleakly .
cn14.115.1	quote	`` Penny 's always glad to see me over there '' , mused he bleakly .
cn14.116.0	ref	Yet had he not visited the girl at Saw Buck he would never have been involved in this latest tangle .
cn14.116.1	pre-adv	Yet he would never have been involved in this latest tangle had he not visited the girl at Saw Buck .
cn14.118.0	ref	`` Gyp Carmer could n't have known about Colcord 's money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him '' ? He asked himself .
cn14.118.1	post-adv	`` Gyp Carmer could n't unless he was told have known about Colcord 's money -- and who else would have told him '' ? He asked himself .
cn14.118.2	quote	`` Gyp Carmer could n't have known about Colcord 's money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him '' ? asked he himself .
cn14.121.0	ref	Nearing home , he jerked to attention at the distant crack of a gun .
cn14.121.1	post-adj2	Nearing home , he jerked at the distant crack of a gun to attention .
cn14.130.0	ref	His first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told him nothing .
cn14.130.1	dat-np-np	His first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told nothing to him .
cn14.132.0	ref	Setting a course straight for the house , he was covering ground fast when an angry bee buzzed past close to his face .
cn14.132.1	post-adv	Setting a course straight for the house , he when an angry bee buzzed past close to his face was covering ground fast .
cn14.133.0	ref	When it was followed by a second , whining even closer , Cobb swerved sharply aside into a depression .
cn14.133.1	pre-adv	Cobb swerved sharply aside into a depression , when it was followed by a second , whining even closer .
cn14.135.0	ref	Whoever was out there hiding in the brushy cover was besieging the Antler house and , having spotted his approach , was determined to drive him off before he could get into the fight .
cn14.135.1	post-adv	Whoever was out there hiding in the brushy cover was besieging the Antler house and , having spotted his approach , was determined before he could get into the fight to drive him off .
cn14.137.0	ref	If he wondered whether the attackers would allow him to pull away unmolested , he had his answer a moment later .
cn14.137.1	pre-adv	He had his answer a moment later , if he wondered whether the attackers would allow him to pull away unmolested .
cn14.140.0	ref	A harsh cry floated to him across the brush .
cn14.140.1	post-adj2	A harsh cry floated across the brush to him .
cn14.145.0	ref	Leading his pony , he hurried that way , not remounting till he was well below the level of the surrounding range .
cn14.145.1	post-adv	Leading his pony , he hurried that way , till he was well below the level of the surrounding range not remounting .
cn14.147.0	ref	He had not covered a hundred yards before a gun crashed from somewhere behind .
cn14.147.1	post-adv	He before a gun crashed from somewhere behind had not covered a hundred yards .
cn14.149.0	ref	A shot or two went wild before Cobb felt something tug at his foot .
cn14.149.1	post-adv	Before Cobb felt something tug at his foot a shot or two went wild .
cn14.155.0	ref	At the first shot Russ had hurled his mount to the left toward the side of the winding draw .
cn14.155.1	post-adj2	At the first shot Russ had hurled his mount toward the side of the winding draw to the left .
cn14.159.0	ref	He dashed madly for the next elbow turn in the draw , and made it .
cn14.159.1	post-adj2	He dashed for the next elbow turn in the draw madly , and made it .
cn14.160.0	ref	Recklessly hurling the bronc sidewise into an intersecting draw , he plunged forward with undiminished speed .
cn14.160.1	post-adj2	Recklessly hurling the bronc into an intersecting draw sidewise , he plunged forward with undiminished speed .
cn15.4.0	ref	Cricket took eight ships and went south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan .
cn15.4.1	post-adj3	Cricket took eight ships and went across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao south to Cagayan .
cn15.4.2	post-adj3	Cricket took eight ships and went to Cagayan across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao south .
cn15.4.3	post-adj3	Cricket took eight ships and went south to Cagayan across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao .
cn15.4.4	post-adj3	Cricket took eight ships and went to Cagayan south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao .
cn15.4.5	post-adj3	Cricket took eight ships and went across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan south .
cn15.6.0	ref	Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships .
cn15.6.1	post-adv	Fleischman with eight was , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships , to patrol the Leyte Gulf area .
cn15.6.2	post-adv	Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task before they got to the ships to get any kamikaze .
cn15.9.0	ref	A weapons carrier took Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip .
cn15.9.1	dat-np-np	A weapons carrier took the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip to Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others .
cn15.12.0	ref	The sky glowered down at them .
cn15.12.1	post-adj2	The sky glowered at them down .
cn15.15.0	ref	Donovan snatched Greg 's chute from him with a belligerent motion and almost ran to the plane with it .
cn15.15.1	post-adj2	Donovan snatched Greg 's chute with a belligerent motion from him and almost ran to the plane with it .
cn15.16.0	ref	His face was dark as the sky above it as he stood on the wing and waited for his pilot .
cn15.16.1	post-adv	As he stood on the wing and waited for his pilot his face was dark as the sky above it .
cn15.19.0	ref	`` I 've got her as neat as I can '' , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg 's shoulders .
cn15.19.1	post-adv	As he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg 's shoulders , `` I 've got her as neat as I can '' , Donovan said .
cn15.19.2	quote	`` I 've got her as neat as I can '' , said Donovan , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg 's shoulders .
cn15.25.0	ref	See you '' , Donovan said as he jumped off the wing .
cn15.25.1	post-adv	As he jumped off the wing see you '' , Donovan said .
cn15.25.2	quote	See you '' , said Donovan as he jumped off the wing .
cn15.28.0	ref	From the time the chocks were pulled until the plane was out of sight , he knew Donovan would keep his back to the strip .
cn15.28.1	pre-adv	From the time the chocks were pulled he knew Donovan would keep his back to the strip , until the plane was out of sight .
cn15.30.0	ref	Yet long before the scheduled time for return , Donovan would be watching for every speck in the sky .
cn15.30.1	pre-adj2	Long before the scheduled time for return yet , Donovan would be watching for every speck in the sky .
cn15.34.0	ref	The control tower gave him immediate take-off permission , and the clean roar of the engine that took him off the rough strip spoke well of the skill of Donovan .
cn15.34.1	dat-np-np	The control tower gave immediate take-off permission to him , and the clean roar of the engine that took him off the rough strip spoke well of the skill of Donovan .
cn15.35.0	ref	Greg 's mission was the last to leave , and as he circled the ships off Tacloban he saw the clouds were dropping down again .
cn15.35.1	pre-adv	Greg 's mission was the last to leave , and he saw the clouds were dropping down again as he circled the ships off Tacloban .
cn15.35.2	post-adj2	Greg 's mission was the last to leave , and as he circled the ships off Tacloban he saw the clouds were dropping again down .
cn15.38.0	ref	Water splashed against his windshield as he led the flight in and out of showers .
cn15.38.1	post-adv	As he led the flight in and out of showers water splashed against his windshield .
cn15.40.0	ref	He possessed the fighter pilot 's horror of bad weather and instrument flying , and he wondered , if the ceiling did drop , whether he and the other flights would be able to find their way back in this unfamiliar territory .
cn15.40.1	post-adv	He possessed the fighter pilot 's horror of bad weather and instrument flying , and , if the ceiling did drop , he wondered , whether he and the other flights would be able to find their way back in this unfamiliar territory .
cn15.44.0	ref	They would have to go west through the narrow river valley that separated Leyte from Samar and hope that it did n't close in before they returned .
cn15.44.1	post-adv	They would have to go west through the narrow river valley that separated Leyte from Samar and hope that it before they returned did n't close in .
cn15.44.2	post-adj2	They would have to go through the narrow river valley that separated Leyte from Samar west and hope that it did n't close in before they returned .
cn15.47.0	ref	Stay in close and we 'll go up the valley '' .
cn15.47.1	post-adj2	Stay close in and we 'll go up the valley '' .
cn15.49.0	ref	Greg took the formation wide around three A-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the Gulf .
cn15.49.1	post-adj2	Greg took the formation around three A-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the Gulf wide .
cn15.52.0	ref	It was only a fifteen-minute flight , but before it was through Greg felt himself developing a case of claustrophobia .
cn15.52.1	pre-adv	It was only a fifteen-minute flight , but Greg felt himself developing a case of claustrophobia before it was through .
cn15.53.0	ref	The ceiling stayed solid above them at about eight hundred feet , and at times the sheer cliffs seemed about to close in .
cn15.53.1	post-adj2	The ceiling stayed solid at about eight hundred feet above them , and at times the sheer cliffs seemed about to close in .
cn15.54.0	ref	If the other pilots were worried , they did not show it .
cn15.54.1	pre-adv	They did not show it , if the other pilots were worried .
cn15.56.0	ref	When the sea was visible ahead of them , the relief was as great as if the sun had come out .
cn15.56.1	pre-adv	The relief was as great as if the sun had come out , when the sea was visible ahead of them .
cn15.58.0	ref	Although they drew light ground fire they saw no signs of activity .
cn15.58.1	pre-adv	They saw no signs of activity , although they drew light ground fire .
cn15.59.0	ref	Once Todman thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate while Greg covered him .
cn15.59.1	post-adv	Once Todman while Greg covered him thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate .
cn15.60.0	ref	`` Somebody beat us to it '' ! Todman said over the radio as he came back up in formation .
cn15.60.1	post-adv	As he came back up in formation `` somebody beat us to it '' ! Todman said over the radio .
cn15.60.2	quote	`` Somebody beat us to it '' ! said Todman over the radio as he came back up in formation .
cn15.66.0	ref	Finally , as time began to run out , he headed into Ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that Intelligence had thought might contain Japanese supplies .
cn15.66.1	pre-adv	Finally he headed into Ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that Intelligence had thought might contain Japanese supplies , as time began to run out .
cn15.70.0	ref	One of Greg 's bombs hung up , and he was miles from the target before he could get rid of it .
cn15.70.1	post-adv	One of Greg 's bombs hung up , and before he could get rid of it he was miles from the target .
cn15.72.0	ref	With their load of bombs gone , the planes moved swiftly and easily .
cn15.72.1	pre-adv	The planes moved swiftly and easily , with their load of bombs gone .
cn15.75.0	ref	Like a man making a deep dive , Greg took full breath and plunged back into the valley .
cn15.75.1	post-adj2	Like a man making a deep dive , Greg took full breath and plunged into the valley back .
cn15.76.0	ref	He was about to make a gas check on his flight when Todman 's voice broke in : `` Sweeneys !
cn15.76.1	post-adv	When Todman 's voice broke in : `` Sweeneys he was about to make a gas check on his flight !
cn15.81.0	ref	They were headed straight for each other on a collision course .
cn15.81.1	post-adj2	They were headed on a collision course straight for each other .
cn15.89.0	ref	If it were the enemy , tactically his position was correct .
cn15.89.1	pre-adv	Tactically his position was correct , if it were the enemy .
cn15.91.0	ref	His present maximum altitude , up against the overcast , gave him the opportunity to exploit his advantages .
cn15.91.1	dat-np-np	His present maximum altitude , up against the overcast , gave the opportunity to exploit his advantages to him .
cn15.92.0	ref	But it also made him conspicuous to the enemy , if it was the enemy , and he had n't been spotted already .
cn15.92.1	post-adv	If it was the enemy , and he had n't been spotted already , but it also made him conspicuous to the enemy .
cn15.103.0	ref	Greg had the stick forward and the throttle up before he heard the two `` Rogers '' .
cn15.103.1	post-adv	Before he heard the two `` Rogers '' Greg had the stick forward and the throttle up .
cn15.105.0	ref	Greg 's airspeed indicator was over 350 when he leveled off just above the trees .
cn15.105.1	post-adv	When he leveled off just above the trees Greg 's airspeed indicator was over 350 .
cn15.114.0	ref	If any of us miss , they can pick up the pieces .
cn15.114.1	pre-adv	They can pick up the pieces , if any of us miss .
cn15.116.0	ref	Even as he said it , Greg knew they had found the enemy .
cn15.116.1	pre-adv	Greg knew they had found the enemy , even as he said it .
cn15.123.0	ref	They 're Japs '' , came a high-pitched voice .
cn15.123.1	iquote	They 're Japs '' , a high-pitched voice came .
cn15.130.0	ref	It gave them all a chance to make a high-speed climbing turn attack and a break-away that would not take them into the overcast or force a tight-turn recovery .
cn15.130.1	dat-np-np	It gave a chance to make a high-speed climbing turn attack and a break-away that would not take them into the overcast or force a tight-turn recovery to them all .
cn15.131.0	ref	If the turn was too tight , a barrel roll would bring them out .
cn15.131.1	pre-adv	A barrel roll would bring them out , if the turn was too tight .
cn15.133.0	ref	Greg slammed his throttle to the fire wall and rammed up the RPM , and the engine responded as if it had been waiting .
cn15.133.1	post-adv	Greg slammed his throttle to the fire wall and rammed up the RPM , and as if it had been waiting the engine responded .
cn15.134.0	ref	The clearly identifiable enemy continued on as if no one else were around .
cn15.134.1	post-adv	As if no one else were around the clearly identifiable enemy continued on .
cn15.135.0	ref	`` They have n't seen us '' , Greg yelled to himself over the engine noise .
cn15.135.1	quote	`` They have n't seen us '' , yelled Greg to himself over the engine noise .
cn15.135.2	post-adj2	`` They have n't seen us '' , Greg yelled over the engine noise to himself .
cn15.140.0	ref	He hauled back on the stick and felt his cheeks sag .
cn15.140.1	post-adj2	He hauled on the stick back and felt his cheeks sag .
cn15.141.0	ref	Out of the corner of his eye , he watched his wingman move out a bit and shoot up with him .
cn15.141.1	post-adj2	Out of the corner of his eye , he watched his wingman move out a bit and shoot with him up .
cn15.143.0	ref	With the rapid rate of closure , the approach from below , the side , and ahead , there would be only a moment when damage could be done .
cn15.143.1	post-adv	With the rapid rate of closure , the approach from below , the side , and ahead , there when damage could be done would be only a moment .
cn15.144.0	ref	Just like shooting at a duck while performing a half-gainer from a diving board .
cn15.144.1	post-adv	Just like while performing a half-gainer from a diving board shooting at a duck .
cn15.158.0	ref	As if drawn by a wire the enemy flew into them .
cn15.158.1	pre-adv	The enemy flew into them as if drawn by a wire .
cn15.159.0	ref	Greg tightened his turn until the plane shuddered .
cn15.159.1	post-adv	Until the plane shuddered Greg tightened his turn .
cn15.161.0	ref	His burst held for a second on the engine section of the plane .
cn15.161.1	post-adj2	His burst held on the engine section of the plane for a second .
cn15.162.0	ref	The Jap 's propeller flew off in pieces .
cn15.162.1	post-adj2	The Jap 's propeller flew in pieces off .
cn15.167.0	ref	If he spun out now , he would join his opponent on the ground .
cn15.167.1	pre-adv	He would join his opponent on the ground , if he spun out now .
cn15.167.2	post-adj2	If he spun now out , he would join his opponent on the ground .
cn15.174.0	ref	His air speed dropped until he thought he would spin out .
cn15.174.1	post-adv	Until he thought he would spin out his air speed dropped .
cn16.2.0	ref	Cool air moving slowly through the open or smashed-out side windows hinted of blooming roadside vegetation , and occasionally a faint fragrance of perfume swirled from the back seat .
cn16.2.1	post-adj2	Cool air moving through the open or smashed-out side windows slowly hinted of blooming roadside vegetation , and occasionally a faint fragrance of perfume swirled from the back seat .
cn16.8.0	ref	I waved with discretion and moderation to the vague golden faces fading through rising dust and the distortions of the back window glass .
cn16.8.1	post-adj2	I waved to the vague golden faces fading through rising dust and the distortions of the back window glass with discretion and moderation .
cn16.11.0	ref	White-shirted and conservatively-cravated drivers stared conspicuously toward the eastern horizon and past my supplicating and accusing gaze .
cn16.11.1	post-adj2	White-shirted and conservatively-cravated drivers stared toward the eastern horizon and past my supplicating and accusing gaze conspicuously .
cn16.19.0	ref	Just as I straightened up with my duffel bag , I heard : `` Sahjunt Yoorick , meet Mrs. Major J. A. Roebuck '' .
cn16.19.1	pre-adv	I heard : `` Sahjunt Yoorick , meet Mrs. Major J. A. Roebuck '' , just as I straightened up with my duffel bag .
cn16.26.0	ref	I said that it did n't make any difference to me either , as far as I knew .
cn16.26.1	post-adj3	I said that it did n't make any difference either to me , as far as I knew .
cn16.26.2	post-adj3	I said that it did n't make any difference as far as I knew either , to me .
cn16.26.3	post-adj3	I said that it did n't make any difference to me as far as I knew , either .
cn16.26.4	post-adj3	I said that it did n't make any difference , as far as I knew , to me either .
cn16.26.5	post-adj3	I said that it did n't make any difference either , as far as I knew to me .
cn16.29.0	ref	I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I , Mrs. Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs. Somebody in Sante Fe .
cn16.29.1	post-adv	I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I , Mrs. Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs. Somebody in Sante Fe would need .
cn16.29.2	pre-adv	I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and Mrs. Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs. Somebody in Sante Fe , as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I .
cn16.30.0	ref	When Johnson ejaculated `` Howsabout my buying us all a nice cold Co-cola , Ma'am '' ? Mrs. Roebuck smilingly declined and began suddenly to go on about her son , who was `` onleh a little younguh than you bawhs '' .
cn16.30.1	pre-adv	Mrs. Roebuck smilingly declined and began suddenly to go on about her son , who was `` onleh a little younguh than you bawhs '' when Johnson ejaculated `` Howsabout my buying us all a nice cold Co-cola , Ma'am '' .
cn16.33.0	ref	`` Just befoh he left foh his academeh we wuh hevin dack-rihs on the vuhranduh , Major Roebuck an Ah , an Huhmun says ' May Ah hev one too ' ?
cn16.33.1	pre-adv	`` We wuh hevin dack-rihs on the vuhranduh , Major Roebuck an Ah just befoh he left foh his academeh , an Huhmun says ' May Ah hev one too ' ?
cn16.35.0	ref	An Ah coud- n ansuh him an so Ah said ' Aw right , Ah gay-ess , an his fathuh did- n uttuh one wohd an aftuh Huhmun was gone , the majuh laughed an tole me thet he an the bawh had been hevin an occasional drink t'gethuh f'- ovuh a yeah , onleh an occasional one , but just the same it was behahn mah back , an Ah doa- n think thet 's nahce at all , d'- you '' ?
cn16.35.1	pre-adv	An Ah coud- n ansuh him an so Ah said ' Aw right , Ah gay-ess , an his fathuh did- n uttuh one wohd an the majuh laughed an tole me thet he an the bawh had been hevin an occasional drink t'gethuh f'- ovuh a yeah , onleh an occasional one , aftuh Huhmun was gone , but just the same it was behahn mah back , an Ah doa- n think thet 's nahce at all , d'- you '' ?
cn16.35.2	post-adj2	An Ah coud- n ansuh him an so Ah said ' Aw right , Ah gay-ess , an his fathuh did- n uttuh one wohd an aftuh Huhmun was gone , the majuh laughed an tole me thet he an the bawh had been hevin an occasional drink f'- ovuh a yeah t'gethuh , onleh an occasional one , but just the same it was behahn mah back , an Ah doa- n think thet 's nahce at all , d'- you '' ?
cn16.36.0	ref	`` No , I do n't '' , Johnson said .
cn16.36.1	quote	`` No , I do n't '' , said Johnson .
cn16.38.0	ref	Mrs. Roebuck very kindly let me drive through Sante Fe to a road which would , she said , lead us to Taos and then Raton and `` eventshahleh '' out of New Mexico .
cn16.38.1	post-adj2	Mrs. Roebuck very kindly let me drive to a road which would , she said , lead us to Taos and then Raton and `` eventshahleh '' out of New Mexico through Sante Fe .
cn16.41.0	ref	Hardly had Mrs. Roebuck driven off when a rusty pick-up truck , father or grandfather of Senor `` Moriarty 's '' Ford sedan , came screeching to a dust-swirling stop , and a brown face appeared , its nose threatened by shards of what had once been the side window .
cn16.41.1	post-adv	When a rusty pick-up truck , father or grandfather of Senor `` Moriarty 's '' Ford sedan , came screeching to a dust-swirling stop , and a brown face appeared , its nose threatened by shards of what had once been the side window hardly had Mrs. Roebuck driven off .
cn16.45.0	ref	Johnson unwired the right hand door , whose window was , like the left one , merely loosely-taped fragments of glass , and Johnson wadded himself into a narrow seat made still more narrow by three cases of beer .
cn16.45.1	post-adj2	Johnson unwired the right hand door , whose window was , merely , like the left one loosely-taped fragments of glass , and Johnson wadded himself into a narrow seat made still more narrow by three cases of beer .
cn16.51.0	ref	Maybe I would beat old Herry to Siberia after all .
cn16.51.1	post-adj2	Maybe I would beat old Herry after all to Siberia .
cn16.56.0	ref	The way his red rubber lips were stretched across his pearly little teeth I thought he was only having a little joke , but , no , he wanted me to bend down from the roar of wind so he could roar something into my ear .
cn16.56.1	post-adv	The way his red rubber lips were stretched across his pearly little teeth I thought he was only having a little joke , but , no , he wanted me so he could roar something into my ear to bend down from the roar of wind .
cn16.58.0	ref	`` Hell , yes '' , I roared back between dusty lips .
cn16.58.1	post-adj2	`` Hell , yes '' , I roared between dusty lips back .
cn16.64.0	ref	Johnson was trying to grab the wheel , though the swerve of the truck was throwing him away from it .
cn16.64.1	post-adv	Johnson , though the swerve of the truck was throwing him away from it , was trying to grab the wheel .
cn16.67.0	ref	I ducked just as the first strand broke somewhere down the line and came whipping over the sideboards .
cn16.67.1	post-adv	Just as the first strand broke somewhere down the line and came whipping over the sideboards I ducked .
cn16.70.0	ref	When I fell on my back , I saw a vulture hovering .
cn16.70.1	pre-adv	I saw a vulture hovering , when I fell on my back .
cn16.71.0	ref	Just as I got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously .
cn16.71.1	pre-adv	There was again the sound of the fence stretching , just as I got to my knees , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously .
cn16.78.0	ref	You thought I was a Mexican , did n't you , buddy '' ?
cn16.78.1	dat-np-np	You thought I was a Mexican , did n't buddy , to you '' ?
cn16.80.0	ref	`` Hell , that 's all right , buddy '' , the Indian -LRB- I now guessed -RRB- said .
cn16.80.1	quote	`` Hell , that 's all right , buddy '' , -LRB- I now guessed -RRB- said the Indian .
cn16.82.0	ref	Miraculously , the bottle was still in my hand , foam still geysering over my -LRB- luckily -RRB- waterproof watch .
cn16.82.1	post-adj2	Miraculously , the bottle was in my hand still , foam still geysering over my -LRB- luckily -RRB- waterproof watch .
cn16.88.0	ref	Teeth again flashing back at me , the driver released a deluge of Spanish in which `` amigo '' appeared every so often like an island in the stormy waves of surrounding sound .
cn16.88.1	post-adj2	Teeth again flashing at me back , the driver released a deluge of Spanish in which `` amigo '' appeared every so often like an island in the stormy waves of surrounding sound .
cn16.95.0	ref	High , so it would only bounce harmlessly but loudly off the car 's steel roof .
cn16.95.1	post-adj2	High , so it would only bounce off the car 's steel roof harmlessly but loudly .
cn16.101.0	ref	I started looking on the splintery truck bed for a piece of board , a dirt clod -- anything I could throw and with better aim than I had thrown the beer bottle .
cn16.101.1	post-adj2	I started looking for a piece of board , a dirt clod -- anything I could throw and with better aim than I had thrown the beer bottle on the splintery truck bed .
cn16.104.0	ref	But Johnson could n't quickly unwire the truck door , and if I escaped , he might suffer .
cn16.104.1	pre-adv	But Johnson could n't quickly unwire the truck door , and he might suffer , if I escaped .
cn16.119.0	ref	I looked back at pale ovals framed in the elongated oval of the car 's rear window .
cn16.119.1	post-adj2	I looked at pale ovals framed in the elongated oval of the car 's rear window back .
cn17.9.0	ref	`` No , I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was ''
cn17.9.1	pre-adv	`` No , I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and all I could think of when it happened was ''
cn17.9.2	post-adj2	`` No , I remembered reading in the papers about you and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was ''
cn17.25.0	ref	`` I forgot '' ! She yelped .
cn17.25.1	quote	`` I forgot '' ! yelped she .
cn17.34.0	ref	`` You may have seen me on TV '' , she said .
cn17.34.1	quote	`` You may have seen me on TV '' , said she .
cn17.41.0	ref	In fact , I was watching you on that little seventeen-inch screen when you rang my bell .
cn17.41.1	post-adv	In fact , I when you rang my bell was watching you on that little seventeen-inch screen .
cn17.45.0	ref	I sat by her on the divan .
cn17.45.1	post-adj2	I sat on the divan by her .
cn17.57.0	ref	`` I could n't agree with you more '' .
cn17.57.1	post-adj2	`` I could n't agree more with you '' .
cn17.65.0	ref	They 'd peddled the soap virtually alone , and without much success , until about a year ago , when -- with the addition of `` SX-21 '' to their secret formula and the inauguration of a high-powered advertising campaign -- sales had soared practically into orbit .
cn17.65.1	post-adv	They , when -- with the addition of `` SX-21 '' to their secret formula and the inauguration of a high-powered advertising campaign -- sales had soared practically into orbit , 'd peddled the soap virtually alone , and without much success , until about a year ago .
cn17.66.0	ref	Their product had been endorsed by Good Housekeeping , the A.M.A. , and the Veterinary Journal , among other repositories of higher wisdom , and before much longer if you did n't have a cake of their soap in the john , even your best friends would think you did n't bathe .
cn17.66.1	pre-adv	Their product had been endorsed by Good Housekeeping , the A.M.A. , and the Veterinary Journal , among other repositories of higher wisdom , and before much longer even your best friends would think you did n't bathe , if you did n't have a cake of their soap in the john .
cn17.68.0	ref	The water in Thor 's big swimming pool had been covered with a blanket of thick , foamy soapsuds -- fashioned , of course , from zing -- Joyce had dived from the board into the pool , then swirled and cavorted in her luxurious `` bath '' while cameras rolled .
cn17.68.1	post-adv	The water in Thor 's big swimming pool had been covered with a blanket of thick , foamy soapsuds -- fashioned , of course , from zing -- Joyce while cameras rolled had dived from the board into the pool , then swirled and cavorted in her luxurious `` bath '' .
cn17.70.0	ref	Joyce went on , `` When we 'd finished , Lou -- Mr. Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer .
cn17.70.1	post-adv	When we 'd finished , Joyce went on , `` Lou -- Mr. Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer .
cn17.70.2	pre-adv	Joyce went on , `` Lou -- Mr. Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer , when we 'd finished .
cn17.71.0	ref	He wanted a few stills for magazine ads , he said .
cn17.71.1	quote	He wanted a few stills for magazine ads , said he .
cn17.82.0	ref	He caught up with me once and grabbed me , but I was all covered with zing -- it 's very slippery , you know '' .
cn17.82.1	post-adj2	He caught up once with me and grabbed me , but I was all covered with zing -- it 's very slippery , you know '' .
cn17.88.0	ref	The keys were still in it , and I was miles away before I remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where I 'd changed '' .
cn17.88.1	post-adv	The keys were still in it , and before I remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where I 'd changed I was miles away '' .
cn17.88.2	post-adj2	The keys were in it still , and I was miles away before I remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where I 'd changed '' .
cn17.89.0	ref	She 'd driven around for a while , Joyce said , then , thinking Louis Thor would have calmed down by that time , she 'd gone back to his home on Bryn Mawr Drive , parked in front , and walked toward the pool .
cn17.89.1	post-adj2	She 'd driven for a while around , Joyce said , then , thinking Louis Thor would have calmed down by that time , she 'd gone back to his home on Bryn Mawr Drive , parked in front , and walked toward the pool .
cn17.90.0	ref	While several yards from it , still concealed by the shrubbery , she 'd seen two men on her left at the pool 's edge .
cn17.90.1	pre-adv	Still concealed by the shrubbery , she 'd seen two men on her left at the pool 's edge , while several yards from it .
cn17.104.0	ref	But if Joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal , the role would probably go to the sponsor 's wife , Mrs. Oatnut Grits .
cn17.104.1	pre-adv	But the role would probably go to the sponsor 's wife , Mrs. Oatnut Grits , if Joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal .
cn17.106.0	ref	`` And I so want the part '' , she said .
cn17.106.1	quote	`` And I so want the part '' , said she .
cn17.110.0	ref	But I promised Joyce I would mention her name , if at all , only as a last resort .
cn17.110.1	post-adv	But I promised Joyce I , if at all , would mention her name only as a last resort .
cn17.112.0	ref	There I got my Colt Special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went back into the front room .
cn17.112.1	post-adj2	There I got my Colt Special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went into the front room back .
cn17.114.0	ref	`` I 'm starting to itch '' , she said .
cn17.114.1	quote	`` I 'm starting to itch '' , said she .
cn17.117.0	ref	I was loaded with suds when I ran away , and I have n't had a chance to wash it off .
cn17.117.1	post-adv	I when I ran away was loaded with suds , and I have n't had a chance to wash it off .
cn17.119.0	ref	`` You might as well wait here while I 'm gone , so you can use my shower if you 'd like '' .
cn17.119.1	post-adv	`` You , while I 'm gone , might as well wait here so you can use my shower if you 'd like '' .
cn17.119.2	post-adv	`` You , so you can use my shower if you 'd like , might as well wait here while I 'm gone '' .
cn17.119.3	post-adv	`` You might as well wait here while I 'm gone , so you if you 'd like can use my shower '' .
cn17.121.0	ref	I showed her the shower and tub , and she said , smiling , `` If you really do n't mind , I think I 'll get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub .
cn17.121.1	dat-np-np	I showed the shower and tub to her , and she said , smiling , `` If you really do n't mind , I think I 'll get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub .
cn17.121.2	post-adv	I showed her the shower and tub , and , if you really do n't mind , she said , smiling , `` I think I 'll get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub .
cn17.121.3	pre-adv	I showed her the shower and tub , and she said , smiling , `` I think I 'll get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub , if you really do n't mind .
cn17.128.0	ref	It 'll probably be at least an hour or two before I can check back with you .
cn17.128.1	post-adv	It before I can check back with you 'll probably be at least an hour or two .
cn17.128.2	post-adj2	It 'll probably be at least an hour or two before I can check with you back .
cn17.144.0	ref	However , when there 's a job to be done , I 'm a monstrosity of grim determination , I like to think .
cn17.144.1	quote	However , when there 's a job to be done , I 'm a monstrosity of grim determination , like I to think .
cn17.144.2	pre-adv	However , I 'm a monstrosity of grim determination , when there 's a job to be done , I like to think .
cn17.146.0	ref	As I went out , I could hear water pouring in the shower .
cn17.146.1	pre-adv	I could hear water pouring in the shower , as I went out .
cn17.150.0	ref	Bryn Mawr Drive is only two or three miles from the Spartan , and it took me less than five minutes to get there .
cn17.150.1	dat-np-np	Bryn Mawr Drive is only two or three miles from the Spartan , and it took less than five minutes to me to get there .
cn17.157.0	ref	A few yards beyond the group of men , a man 's nude body lay face down on a patch of thick green dichondra .
cn17.157.1	post-adj2	A few yards beyond the group of men , a man 's nude body lay on a patch of thick green dichondra face down .
cn17.163.0	ref	A call to the police had been placed from here a couple of minutes after nine P.M. , and the first police car had arrived two or three minutes after that -- 10 minutes ago now .
cn17.163.1	post-adj2	A call to the police had been placed a couple of minutes after nine P.M. from here , and the first police car had arrived two or three minutes after that -- 10 minutes ago now .
cn17.167.0	ref	`` They were supposed to meet Thor at nine PM for a conference concerning the ad campaign for their soap , a new angle based on this SX-21 stuff '' .
cn17.167.1	post-adj2	`` They were supposed to meet Thor for a conference concerning the ad campaign for their soap , a new angle based on this SX-21 stuff at nine PM '' .
cn17.183.0	ref	`` According to Rose , he arrived here a couple minutes before nine and spotted Thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out .
cn17.183.1	post-adj2	`` According to Rose , he arrived a couple minutes before nine here and spotted Thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out .
cn18.1.0	ref	Too many people think that the primary purpose of a higher education is to help you make a living ; this is not so , for education offers all kinds of dividends , including how to pull the wool over a husband 's eyes while you are having an affair with his wife .
cn18.1.1	post-adv	Too many people think that the primary purpose of a higher education is to help you make a living ; for education offers all kinds of dividends , including how to pull the wool over a husband 's eyes while you are having an affair with his wife , this is not so .
cn18.1.2	post-adv	Too many people think that the primary purpose of a higher education is to help you make a living ; this is not so , for education offers all kinds of dividends , including how while you are having an affair with his wife to pull the wool over a husband 's eyes .
cn18.2.0	ref	If it were not for an old professor who made me read the classics I would have been stymied on what to do , and now I understand why they are classics ; those who wrote them knew people and what made people tick .
cn18.2.1	pre-adv	I would have been stymied on what to do if it were not for an old professor who made me read the classics , and now I understand why they are classics ; those who wrote them knew people and what made people tick .
cn18.7.0	ref	I had come to New Orleans two years earlier after graduating college , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there .
cn18.7.1	post-adv	I , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there , had come to New Orleans two years earlier after graduating college .
cn18.7.2	post-adj3	I had come two years earlier to New Orleans after graduating college , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there .
cn18.7.3	post-adj3	I had come after graduating college two years earlier to New Orleans , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there .
cn18.7.4	post-adj3	I had come to New Orleans after graduating college two years earlier , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there .
cn18.7.5	post-adj3	I had come , after graduating college , to New Orleans two years earlier partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there .
cn18.7.6	post-adj3	I had come two years earlier after graduating college to New Orleans , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there .
cn18.8.0	ref	When my Uncle offered me a part-time job which would take care of my normal expenses and give me time to paint I accepted .
cn18.8.1	dat-np-np	When my Uncle offered a part-time job which would take care of my normal expenses and give me time to paint to me I accepted .
cn18.8.2	dat-np-np	When my Uncle offered me a part-time job which would take care of my normal expenses and give time to paint to me I accepted .
cn18.8.3	pre-adv	I accepted when my Uncle offered me a part-time job which would take care of my normal expenses and give me time to paint .
cn18.11.0	ref	I had seen two of them and we would soon be in another city-wide , joyous celebration with romance in the air ; and , when you took a walk you never knew what adventure or pair of sparkling eyes were waiting around the next corner .
cn18.11.1	pre-adv	I had seen two of them and we would soon be in another city-wide , joyous celebration with romance in the air ; and , you never knew what adventure or pair of sparkling eyes were waiting around the next corner when you took a walk .
cn18.14.0	ref	My Uncle and I were not too close socially because of the difference in our ages .
cn18.14.1	post-adj2	My Uncle and I were not too close because of the difference in our ages socially .
cn18.15.0	ref	Sometimes I wondered vaguely what he did about women for my Aunt , by blood , had died some years ago , but neither of us said anything .
cn18.15.1	post-adv	For my Aunt , by blood , had died some years ago sometimes I wondered vaguely what he did about women , but neither of us said anything .
cn18.17.0	ref	They were married over the week-end , though he was easily sixty and she could not have been even thirty .
cn18.17.1	post-adv	They , though he was easily sixty and she could not have been even thirty , were married over the week-end .
cn18.20.0	ref	My new Aunt was perhaps three or four years older than I and it had been a long time since I had seen as gorgeous a woman who oozed sex .
cn18.20.1	post-adv	My new Aunt was perhaps three or four years older than I and it since I had seen as gorgeous a woman who oozed sex had been a long time .
cn18.23.0	ref	You must forgive me if I seem to dwell too much on her physical aspects but I am an artist , accustomed to studying the physical body .
cn18.23.1	post-adv	You if I seem to dwell too much on her physical aspects must forgive me but I am an artist , accustomed to studying the physical body .
cn18.23.2	post-adj2	You must forgive me if I seem to dwell on her physical aspects too much but I am an artist , accustomed to studying the physical body .
cn18.26.0	ref	And that is the way I first saw her when my Uncle brought her into his antique store .
cn18.26.1	post-adv	And that is the way when my Uncle brought her into his antique store I first saw her .
cn18.27.0	ref	That she impressed me instantly was obvious ; I was aware that when our eyes met we both quickly averted them .
cn18.27.1	pre-adv	That she impressed me instantly was obvious ; I was aware that we both quickly averted them , when our eyes met .
cn18.30.0	ref	She was standing with her back to the glass door .
cn18.30.1	post-adv	She with her back to the glass door was standing .
cn18.32.0	ref	As it is in so many affairs of the heart , a man and a woman meet and something clicks .
cn18.32.1	pre-adv	A man and a woman meet , as it is in so many affairs of the heart , and something clicks .
cn18.33.0	ref	Something clicked in this instance , but I treated her circumspectly and I felt that she knew it , for we both kept our distance .
cn18.33.1	post-adv	Something clicked in this instance , but I treated her circumspectly and , for we both kept our distance , I felt that she knew it .
cn18.34.0	ref	When she appeared at the store to help out for a few hours even my looking at her was surreptitious lest my Uncle notice it .
cn18.34.1	post-adv	Lest my Uncle notice it when she appeared at the store to help out for a few hours even my looking at her was surreptitious .
cn18.34.2	pre-adv	Even my looking at her was surreptitious lest my Uncle notice it when she appeared at the store to help out for a few hours .
cn18.35.0	ref	And then I became aware that she , too , glanced at me surreptitiously .
cn18.35.1	post-adj2	And then I became aware that she , too , glanced surreptitiously at me .
cn18.36.0	ref	I felt that her eyes were undressing me as if she were a painter and I a nude model .
cn18.36.1	post-adv	I felt that her eyes as if she were a painter and I a nude model were undressing me .
cn18.38.0	ref	When our eyes met the air was filled with an unuttered message of `` Me , too '' .
cn18.38.1	pre-adv	The air was filled with an unuttered message of `` Me , too '' when our eyes met .
cn18.43.0	ref	He already had that slow pace that comes over the elderly , while she herself had all the signs of one who appreciates the joys of living .
cn18.43.1	post-adv	While she herself had all the signs of one who appreciates the joys of living , he already had that slow pace that comes over the elderly .
cn18.44.0	ref	Perhaps , with my Uncle , she found a measure of economic security that she needed ; or maybe she liked men old enough to be her father ; some women with father fixations do .
cn18.44.1	pre-adj2	With my Uncle , perhaps , she found a measure of economic security that she needed ; or maybe she liked men old enough to be her father ; some women with father fixations do .
cn18.46.0	ref	I was waiting in front of it when she showed up and told me of my Uncle 's indisposition .
cn18.46.1	post-adv	I when she showed up and told me of my Uncle 's indisposition was waiting in front of it .
cn18.47.0	ref	Even as she was telling me about it I became aware of a give-away flush that suffused her neck and moved upwards to her cheeks , and subconsciously I realized that when she entered the store she did not switch on the lights .
cn18.47.1	pre-adv	I became aware of a give-away flush that suffused her neck and moved upwards to her cheeks even as she was telling me about it , and subconsciously I realized that when she entered the store she did not switch on the lights .
cn18.47.2	pre-adv	Even as she was telling me about it I became aware of a give-away flush that suffused her neck and moved upwards to her cheeks , and subconsciously I realized that she did not switch on the lights when she entered the store .
cn18.48.0	ref	The cavernous depth , cluttered with antiques , echoed to her hard heels as she walked directly to the office in the rear and took the seat at his desk .
cn18.48.1	post-adv	As she walked directly to the office in the rear and took the seat at his desk the cavernous depth , cluttered with antiques , echoed to her hard heels .
cn18.49.0	ref	She placed her palms , fingers outspread , on the desk in an odd gesture as if to say , `` Now , what next '' ?
cn18.49.1	post-adv	As if to say , `` Now , what next '' she placed her palms , fingers outspread , on the desk in an odd gesture ?
cn18.49.2	post-adj2	She placed her palms , fingers outspread , in an odd gesture on the desk as if to say , `` Now , what next '' ?
cn18.57.0	ref	When we opened the door again for business and switched on the lights she said : `` He will not always be indisposed '' .
cn18.57.1	pre-adv	She said : `` He will not always be indisposed '' when we opened the door again for business and switched on the lights .
cn18.57.2	post-adj2	When we opened the door for business again and switched on the lights she said : `` He will not always be indisposed '' .
cn18.61.0	ref	`` I do n't know '' , she said .
cn18.61.1	quote	`` I do n't know '' , said she .
cn18.64.0	ref	I 've noticed the way you 've been looking at me ever since we met '' .
cn18.64.1	post-adv	I ever since we met 've noticed the way you 've been looking at me '' .
cn18.65.0	ref	`` I guess we both felt it '' . I said .
cn18.65.1	quote	`` I guess we both felt it '' . said I .
cn18.66.0	ref	`` I guess so '' , she said .
cn18.66.1	quote	`` I guess so '' , said she .
cn18.68.0	ref	Even as I said it I realized that an education can be invaluable .
cn18.68.1	pre-adv	I realized that an education can be invaluable even as I said it .
cn18.69.0	ref	`` I know what we can do '' , I said .
cn18.69.1	quote	`` I know what we can do '' , said I .
cn18.78.0	ref	`` When I was in college '' , I grinned , `` I remember a poem I had to read in my lit class .
cn18.78.1	pre-adv	I grinned , `` I remember a poem I had to read in my lit class `` when I was in college '' .
cn18.84.0	ref	If you tell him I made a pass at you he might think you misunderstood something I said or did , so instead of just telling him I made a pass , say I tried to date you and that you agreed so you could prove to him what a louse I really am .
cn18.84.1	post-adv	If you tell him I made a pass at you he might think you misunderstood something I said or did , so instead of just telling him I made a pass , say I tried to date you and that so you could prove to him what a louse I really am you agreed .
cn18.84.2	pre-adv	He might think you misunderstood something I said or did if you tell him I made a pass at you , so instead of just telling him I made a pass , say I tried to date you and that you agreed so you could prove to him what a louse I really am .
cn18.89.0	ref	When I show up he will know you are a good wife to have told him about it '' .
cn18.89.1	pre-adv	He will know you are a good wife to have told him about it when I show up '' .
cn18.93.0	ref	`` I do n't understand '' , she insisted .
cn18.93.1	quote	`` I do n't understand '' , insisted she .
cn18.96.0	ref	As we expected , on the following day my Uncle was completely recovered and opened the store as usual at 10 in the morning .
cn18.96.1	pre-adv	On the following day my Uncle was completely recovered and opened the store as usual at 10 in the morning , as we expected .
cn18.96.2	post-adj2	As we expected , on the following day my Uncle was completely recovered and opened the store at 10 in the morning as usual .
cn18.97.0	ref	I felt that he looked at me coldly and appraisingly and seemed to be uncertain what his attitude towards me should be , but he did not say one word which might indicate that he had been told of advances to his wife .
cn18.97.1	post-adj2	I felt that he looked coldly and appraisingly at me and seemed to be uncertain what his attitude towards me should be , but he did not say one word which might indicate that he had been told of advances to his wife .
cn18.98.0	ref	I quit work at my usual hour as if this day was no different from other days .
cn18.98.1	post-adv	As if this day was no different from other days I quit work at my usual hour .
cn18.103.0	ref	If it were not that I knew who it was I could have mistaken it for my Aunt so well did her clothes fit him .
cn18.103.1	post-adv	If it were not that I knew who it was I could so well did her clothes fit him have mistaken it for my Aunt .
cn18.103.2	pre-adv	I could have mistaken it for my Aunt so well did her clothes fit him if it were not that I knew who it was .
cn18.104.0	ref	In one hand he gripped firmly a parasol though there had been no indication of rain .
cn18.104.1	post-adv	Though there had been no indication of rain in one hand he gripped firmly a parasol .
cn18.107.0	ref	He was looking out on the dark waters of the Lake when I came upon him and without wasting words I smacked him hard across the face .
cn18.107.1	post-adv	He when I came upon him and without wasting words I smacked him hard across the face was looking out on the dark waters of the Lake .
cn19.3.0	ref	The bars were marked as Walter had marked them in a small black book kept in a nearly secret drawer .
cn19.3.1	post-adv	The bars as Walter had marked them in a small black book kept in a nearly secret drawer were marked .
cn19.5.0	ref	A card to Walter would get him an introduction to this Meredith , and that might be good for something .
cn19.5.1	dat-np-np	A card to Walter would get an introduction to this Meredith to him , and that might be good for something .
cn19.7.0	ref	That ought to draw a laugh , Nicolas reasoned , as he stored the line away on the wax tape that was his mind .
cn19.7.1	post-adv	As he stored the line away on the wax tape that was his mind , that ought to draw a laugh , Nicolas reasoned .
cn19.7.2	quote	That ought to draw a laugh , reasoned Nicolas , as he stored the line away on the wax tape that was his mind .
cn19.7.3	post-adj2	That ought to draw a laugh , Nicolas reasoned , as he stored the line on the wax tape that was his mind away .
cn19.9.0	ref	Five days later , on receiving it , Meredith sat drumming his dactyls on his writing table .
cn19.9.1	pre-adj2	On receiving it , five days later , Meredith sat drumming his dactyls on his writing table .
cn19.14.0	ref	He had returned to the pension a week ago .
cn19.14.1	post-adj2	He had returned a week ago to the pension .
cn19.15.0	ref	Now , he was just in the late poems of Holderlin and therefore had most of the nineteenth century before him -- plus next semester 's class preparation .
cn19.15.1	post-adj2	Now , he was just in the late poems of Holderlin and therefore had most of the nineteenth century plus next semester 's class preparation -- before him .
cn19.17.0	ref	Well , maybe Manas would n't call .
cn19.17.1	pre-adj2	Maybe , well Manas would n't call .
cn19.19.0	ref	The menace of Manas gradually faded as Meredith asked himself should he translate it ' How the dark fates laughed ' ?
cn19.19.1	post-adv	As Meredith asked himself should he translate it ' How the dark fates laughed ' the menace of Manas gradually faded ?
cn19.21.0	ref	And he missed the point that the swarthy witches might be laughing at him for hoping to escape Nicolas Manas .
cn19.21.1	post-adj2	And he missed the point that the swarthy witches might be laughing for hoping to escape Nicolas Manas at him .
cn19.28.0	ref	-LRB- Would she have been able to had she known that the blanket belonged to a young ballet dancer Nicolas had found his first night in one of Walter 's marked bars ?
cn19.28.1	post-adv	-LRB- Would she had she known that the blanket belonged to a young ballet dancer Nicolas had found his first night in one of Walter 's marked bars have been able to ?
cn19.29.0	ref	Nicolas : `` Look , Nicolas does n't go to bed with boys -- no sex , see ?
cn19.29.1	post-adj2	Nicolas : `` Look , Nicolas does n't go with boys to bed -- no sex , see ?
cn19.30.0	ref	So if all these beers was to get me in bed , man , you just spent a lot of money '' .
cn19.30.1	pre-adv	So man , you just spent a lot of money , if all these beers was to get me in bed '' .
cn19.33.0	ref	And when you get off this job tonight , well , you can gim me something to eat '' .
cn19.33.1	pre-adv	And well , you can gim me something to eat , when you get off this job tonight '' .
cn19.33.2	post-adj2	And when you get tonight off this job , well , you can gim me something to eat '' .
cn19.34.0	ref	And , as a matter of fact , Nicolas had slept in the park only part of one night , when he discovered that Munich 's early mornings even in summer are laden with dew .
cn19.34.1	post-adv	And , as a matter of fact , Nicolas , when he discovered that Munich 's early mornings even in summer are laden with dew , had slept in the park only part of one night .
cn19.34.2	post-adj2	And , as a matter of fact , Nicolas had slept only part of one night in the park , when he discovered that Munich 's early mornings even in summer are laden with dew .
cn19.36.0	ref	He used the blanket for late morning naps when hosts of the night had gone off to jobs and proved reluctant to leave him in their small rooms with their few possessions .
cn19.36.1	post-adv	When hosts of the night had gone off to jobs and proved reluctant to leave him in their small rooms with their few possessions he used the blanket for late morning naps .
cn19.38.0	ref	Her Nicolas lay curled in the sun like a fawn , black hair falling over his eyes .
cn19.38.1	post-adj2	Her Nicolas lay curled like a fawn in the sun , black hair falling over his eyes .
cn19.46.0	ref	Even so , it took her several days to force Walter to tell her Nicolas 's whereabouts .
cn19.46.1	dat-np-np	Even so , it took several days to her to force Walter to tell her Nicolas 's whereabouts .
cn19.46.2	dat-np-np	Even so , it took her several days to force Walter to tell Nicolas 's whereabouts to her .
cn19.47.0	ref	Packing a small suitcase , informing her husband whom she found in Harry 's Bar that she was taking a train to Germany to get away for a while , patting his arm , refusing a drink , getting on the train -- all this had only taken her two hours .
cn19.47.1	dat-np-np	Packing a small suitcase , informing her husband whom she found in Harry 's Bar that she was taking a train to Germany to get away for a while , patting his arm , refusing a drink , getting on the train -- all this had only taken two hours to her .
cn19.52.0	ref	And I will greatly appreciate it if you will not tell your husband . ''
cn19.52.1	post-adv	And I if you will not tell your husband will greatly appreciate it . ''
cn19.59.0	ref	The sun grew hotter as it approached the midday .
cn19.59.1	post-adv	As it approached the midday the sun grew hotter .
cn19.63.0	ref	He half woke and rolled over with his face in the cooler grass .
cn19.63.1	post-adv	He with his face in the cooler grass half woke and rolled over .
cn19.66.0	ref	He blew his nose expertly between his fingers .
cn19.66.1	post-adj2	He blew his nose between his fingers expertly .
cn19.80.0	ref	Meredith was irritated when the Grafin knocked at his door and told him , `` She is a great beauty !
cn19.80.1	post-adv	Meredith when the Grafin knocked at his door and told him , `` She is a great beauty was irritated !
cn19.82.0	ref	Actually , she is a sad beauty , I believe .
cn19.82.1	quote	Actually , she is a sad beauty , believe I .
cn19.84.0	ref	Rather erotically he listened to the bath water running ; when it stopped he began busily typing , sitting up in a virtuous way .
cn19.84.1	pre-adv	Rather erotically he listened to the bath water running ; he began busily typing , sitting up in a virtuous way when it stopped .
cn19.87.0	ref	Singing into the mirror and his interested eyes , he was pleased to note , when he stripped for his own bath , that he still had the best part of his Italian sun tan .
cn19.87.1	post-adv	Singing into the mirror and his interested eyes , he was pleased , when he stripped for his own bath , to note that he still had the best part of his Italian sun tan .
cn19.88.0	ref	He flexed his muscles for several minutes , got into the tub , and then grew self-conscious of splashing as he washed .
cn19.88.1	post-adv	He flexed his muscles for several minutes , got into the tub , and then grew self-conscious of as he washed splashing .
cn19.90.0	ref	He was asking had it been she who left the love note in his sheets -LRB- she also served as maid -RRB- when he saw the Grafin followed by a stately blond girl approaching his table .
cn19.90.1	post-adv	He when he saw the Grafin followed by a stately blond girl approaching his table was asking had it been she who left the love note in his sheets -LRB- she also served as maid -RRB- .
cn19.99.0	ref	As she was rather tired this evening , her simple `` Thank you for the use of your bath '' -- when she sat down opposite him -- spoken in a low voice , came across with coolnesses of intelligence and control .
cn19.99.1	pre-adv	Her simple `` Thank you for the use of your bath '' -- when she sat down opposite him -- spoken in a low voice , came across with coolnesses of intelligence and control , as she was rather tired this evening .
cn19.112.0	ref	She whispered Steinhager to herself , several times , memorizing it .
cn19.112.1	post-adj2	She whispered Steinhager several times , to herself , memorizing it .
cn19.113.0	ref	`` Would you first read the poem aloud to me and then let me read it to myself '' ?
cn19.113.1	post-adj2	`` Would you first read the poem to me aloud and then let me read it to myself '' ?
cn19.114.0	ref	Meredith 's voice was always deep , with rough bass notes in it ; in reading , on platforms , even in the large auditorium of the Y.M.H.A. , Poetry Center nights , his voice was intimate , thoughtful , and a trifle shy .
cn19.114.1	post-adj2	Meredith 's voice was with rough bass notes in it deep , always ; in reading , on platforms , even in the large auditorium of the Y.M.H.A. , Poetry Center nights , his voice was intimate , thoughtful , and a trifle shy .
cn19.115.0	ref	His new poem , a love poem , told of a young husband leading his wife upstairs to the bedroom when the lights in the house have failed .
cn19.115.1	post-adv	His new poem , a love poem , told of when the lights in the house have failed a young husband leading his wife upstairs to the bedroom .
cn19.118.0	ref	In the bedroom before the husband and wife find their way to the bed , the lights go on :
cn19.118.1	pre-adv	In the bedroom the lights go on , before the husband and wife find their way to the bed :
cn19.127.0	ref	They discussed the way people never tell each other the things on their minds .
cn19.127.1	dat-np-np	They discussed the way people never tell the things on their minds to each other .
cn19.133.0	ref	At her door , two or three hours later , Mary Jane whispered , `` Everyone is asleep '' .
cn19.133.1	pre-adj2	Two or three hours later , at her door , Mary Jane whispered , `` Everyone is asleep '' .
cn19.136.0	ref	But with her hand softly on his cheek for a last moment , she closed the door and he went back down the hall and into his bed excited , expectant , and finally faintly grinning with the feel of her hand against his mouth .
cn19.136.1	pre-adv	But she closed the door , with her hand softly on his cheek for a last moment , and he went back down the hall and into his bed excited , expectant , and finally faintly grinning with the feel of her hand against his mouth .
cn19.136.2	post-adj2	But with her hand softly on his cheek for a last moment , she closed the door and he went down the hall and into his bed back excited , expectant , and finally faintly grinning with the feel of her hand against his mouth .
cn20.4.0	ref	And the valley stretched endlessly out ahead , scorched and baked and writhing in its heat , until it vanished into the throbbing wall of fiery orange brown haze .
cn20.4.1	post-adv	Until it vanished into the throbbing wall of fiery orange brown haze , and the valley stretched endlessly out ahead , scorched and baked and writhing in its heat .
cn20.4.2	post-adj2	And the valley stretched out ahead endlessly , scorched and baked and writhing in its heat , until it vanished into the throbbing wall of fiery orange brown haze .
cn20.5.0	ref	Ben Prime extended his high-stepped stride until he could lay his goad across the noses of the oxen .
cn20.5.1	post-adv	Until he could lay his goad across the noses of the oxen Ben Prime extended his high-stepped stride .
cn20.9.0	ref	The dust-thick saliva came from his mouth like balled cotton .
cn20.9.1	post-adj2	The dust-thick saliva came like balled cotton from his mouth .
cn20.10.0	ref	He moved back to the wheel and stood there blowing , grasping the top of a spoke to still the trembling of his played-out limbs .
cn20.10.1	post-adj2	He moved to the wheel back and stood there blowing , grasping the top of a spoke to still the trembling of his played-out limbs .
cn20.21.0	ref	He replenished the dipper and handed it to his young wife riding the hurricane deck .
cn20.21.1	dat-np-pp	He replenished the dipper and handed his young wife riding the hurricane deck it .
cn20.22.0	ref	She took it grudgingly , her dark eyes baleful as they met his .
cn20.22.1	post-adv	As they met his she took it grudgingly , her dark eyes baleful .
cn20.24.0	ref	She set the dipper on the edge of the deck , leaving it for him to stretch after it while she looked on scornfully .
cn20.24.1	post-adv	She set the dipper on the edge of the deck , leaving it for him while she looked on scornfully to stretch after it .
cn20.25.0	ref	`` What happens when there 's no more water '' ? She asked smolderingly .
cn20.25.1	post-adv	`` What when there 's no more water happens '' ? She asked smolderingly .
cn20.26.0	ref	She was like charcoal , he thought -- dark , opaque , explosive .
cn20.26.1	quote	She was like charcoal , thought he -- dark , opaque , explosive .
cn20.28.0	ref	Her temper sparked like charcoal when it first lights up .
cn20.28.1	post-adv	When it first lights up her temper sparked like charcoal .
cn20.29.0	ref	And all the time , she had the heat of hatred in her , like charcoal that is burning on its under side , but not visibly .
cn20.29.1	post-adj2	And all the time , she had the heat of hatred like charcoal that is burning on its under side , but not visibly , in her .
cn20.33.0	ref	`` We can get it if we dig '' , he said patiently .
cn20.33.1	post-adv	`` We if we dig can get it '' , he said patiently .
cn20.33.2	quote	`` We can get it if we dig '' , said he patiently .
cn20.34.0	ref	`` And add fever to our troubles '' ? She scoffed .
cn20.34.1	quote	`` And add fever to our troubles '' ? scoffed she .
cn20.36.0	ref	`` We can boil it '' , he said .
cn20.36.1	quote	`` We can boil it '' , said he .
cn20.38.0	ref	`` We 're lost and burning up already '' , she bit out tensely .
cn20.38.1	quote	`` We 're lost and burning up already '' , bit she out tensely .
cn20.39.0	ref	`` The tires are rattling on the wheels now .
cn20.39.1	post-adj2	`` The tires are rattling now on the wheels .
cn20.49.0	ref	He had picked out this pathless trail , instead of the common one , in a moment of romantic fancy , to give them privacy on their honeymoon .
cn20.49.1	dat-np-np	He had picked out this pathless trail , instead of the common one , in a moment of romantic fancy , to give privacy on their honeymoon to them .
cn20.50.0	ref	It had been a mistake , but anything would have been a mistake , as it turned out .
cn20.50.1	post-adv	It had been a mistake , but anything would , as it turned out , have been a mistake .
cn20.52.0	ref	She had hated the whole idea before they started .
cn20.52.1	post-adv	She before they started had hated the whole idea .
cn20.53.0	ref	Actually , she had hated him before she ever saw him .
cn20.53.1	post-adv	Actually , she before she ever saw him had hated him .
cn20.54.0	ref	It had been five days too late before he learned that she 'd gone through the wedding ceremony in a semitrance of laudanum , administered by her mother .
cn20.54.1	post-adv	It before he learned that she 'd gone through the wedding ceremony in a semitrance of laudanum , administered by her mother had been five days too late .
cn20.54.2	post-adj2	It had been five days too late before he learned that she 'd gone in a semitrance of laudanum , administered by her mother through the wedding ceremony .
cn20.55.0	ref	The bitterness of their wedding night still ripped within him like an open wound .
cn20.55.1	post-adj2	The bitterness of their wedding night still ripped like an open wound within him .
cn20.56.0	ref	She had jumped away from his shy touch like a cat confronted by a sidewinder .
cn20.56.1	post-adj2	She had jumped like a cat confronted by a sidewinder away from his shy touch .
cn20.60.0	ref	`` I suppose '' , he muttered , `` I can sell the outfit for enough to send you home to your folks , once we find a settlement '' .
cn20.60.1	post-adv	`` I suppose '' , he muttered , `` I , once we find a settlement , can sell the outfit for enough to send you home to your folks '' .
cn20.63.0	ref	`` They would n't have sold me in the first place if there 'd been food enough to go around '' .
cn20.63.1	post-adv	`` They would n't if there 'd been food enough to go around have sold me in the first place '' .
cn20.65.0	ref	`` Hettie , they did n't sell you '' , he said miserably .
cn20.65.1	quote	`` Hettie , they did n't sell you '' , said he miserably .
cn20.74.0	ref	Then he noticed the clouds racing upon them -- heavy , ominous , leaden clouds that formed even as they sliced over the crests of the surrounding hills .
cn20.74.1	post-adv	Then he noticed the clouds racing upon them -- heavy , ominous , leaden clouds that even as they sliced over the crests of the surrounding hills formed .
cn20.76.0	ref	He hollered hoarsely , `` Hang on '' ! And goaded the oxen as he yelled .
cn20.76.1	post-adv	He as he yelled hollered hoarsely , `` Hang on '' ! And goaded the oxen .
cn20.80.0	ref	`` You had better get inside '' , he warned her .
cn20.80.1	quote	`` You had better get inside '' , warned he her .
cn20.81.0	ref	But she sat on in stubborn silence .
cn20.81.1	post-adj2	But she sat in stubborn silence on .
cn20.88.0	ref	And then came the water -- not rain , but solid sheets that sluiced down like water slopping from a bucket .
cn20.88.1	post-adj2	And then came the water -- not rain , but solid sheets that sluiced like water slopping from a bucket down .
cn20.90.0	ref	Through the splash of the rising waters , they could hear the roar of the river as it raged through its canyon , gnashing big chunks out of the banks .
cn20.90.1	post-adv	Through the splash of the rising waters , they as it raged through its canyon , gnashing big chunks out of the banks could hear the roar of the river .
cn20.102.0	ref	Now and then , the glistening side of a half-swamped object showed as it swept past .
cn20.102.1	post-adv	As it swept past now and then , the glistening side of a half-swamped object showed .
cn20.105.0	ref	Out of compulsion to say something cheery , Ben Prime blurted , `` Well , we were lucky to be on soft ground when the first floodheads hit .
cn20.105.1	post-adv	Out of compulsion to say something cheery , Ben Prime blurted , `` Well , we were lucky when the first floodheads hit to be on soft ground .
cn20.107.0	ref	The soaking will put life back in the wagon , too '' .
cn20.107.1	post-adj2	The soaking will put life too , back in the wagon '' .
cn20.109.0	ref	She was watching a tree ride wildly down that roiling current .
cn20.109.1	post-adj2	She was watching a tree ride down that roiling current wildly .
cn20.113.0	ref	But as the tree passed , she lifted an arm in gesture of better luck and farewell .
cn20.113.1	pre-adv	But she lifted an arm in gesture of better luck and farewell , as the tree passed .
cn20.114.0	ref	They watched the tree until it twisted sharply on a bend .
cn20.114.1	post-adv	Until it twisted sharply on a bend they watched the tree .
cn20.114.2	post-adj2	They watched the tree until it twisted on a bend sharply .
cn20.119.0	ref	Then he took off his wet boots and dropped down into the water to talk with the beasts , needing their comfort more than they needed his .
cn20.119.1	post-adj2	Then he took off his wet boots and dropped into the water down to talk with the beasts , needing their comfort more than they needed his .
cn20.120.0	ref	It was nearly sundown and he went to the back of the wagon , half-swimming his way , for he was not a tall man .
cn20.120.1	post-adv	It was nearly sundown and he went to the back of the wagon , for he was not a tall man , half-swimming his way .
cn20.124.0	ref	Of all their worldly belongings , next to the oxen and his gun , the seed grain had been the most treasured .
cn20.124.1	pre-adj2	Next to the oxen and his gun , of all their worldly belongings , the seed grain had been the most treasured .
cn20.125.0	ref	It was spoiled now for seed , and it would sour and mold in three days if they failed to find a place and fuel to dry it .
cn20.125.1	post-adv	It was spoiled now for seed , and it if they failed to find a place and fuel to dry it would sour and mold in three days .
cn20.125.2	post-adj2	It was spoiled for seed now , and it would sour and mold in three days if they failed to find a place and fuel to dry it .
cn20.127.0	ref	He examined the water marks on the iron tires when the animals were finished .
cn20.127.1	post-adv	When the animals were finished he examined the water marks on the iron tires .
cn20.128.0	ref	The waters lay muddy but placid , without a ripple of movement against the wheels ; there was not a match-width of damp mark to show they were receding .
cn20.128.1	post-adv	The waters lay muddy but placid , without a ripple of movement against the wheels ; to show they were receding there was not a match-width of damp mark .
cn20.133.0	ref	The spokes were tight again , the iron tires gripped onto the wheels as if of one piece .
cn20.133.1	post-adv	The spokes were tight again , as if of one piece the iron tires gripped onto the wheels .
cn20.135.0	ref	He swung toward the front to give the news to Hettie , then stopped , barred from her by the vehemence of her blame and hate .
cn20.135.1	dat-np-pp	He swung toward the front to give Hettie the news , then stopped , barred from her by the vehemence of her blame and hate .
cn20.145.0	ref	He looked thoughtfully at his wife 's trunk , holding her meager treasures .
cn20.145.1	post-adj2	He looked at his wife 's trunk , holding her meager treasures thoughtfully .
cn21.3.0	ref	Now , roaring up in great oily clouds of smoke and flames , the fierce heat quickly drove us to the stern where we huddled like suffocating sheep , not knowing what to do .
cn21.3.1	post-adj2	Now , roaring in great oily clouds of smoke and flames up , the fierce heat quickly drove us to the stern where we huddled like suffocating sheep , not knowing what to do .
cn21.6.0	ref	I heard a cry from a stoker as a pillar of flame leaped from a hatch and tongued the man 's bare back .
cn21.6.1	post-adv	As a pillar of flame leaped from a hatch and tongued the man 's bare back I heard a cry from a stoker .
cn21.8.0	ref	One especially bad detonation shook Lifeboat No. 3 which trembled violently in the davits .
cn21.8.1	post-adj2	One especially bad detonation shook Lifeboat No. 3 which trembled in the davits violently .
cn21.11.0	ref	We pulled and swore and yanked and wept , scraping our hands until they bled profusely .
cn21.11.1	post-adv	We pulled and swore and yanked and wept , until they bled profusely scraping our hands .
cn21.15.0	ref	`` Let 's get away fast '' , said Brassnose , shaking water from his mop of bleached hair .
cn21.15.1	post-adj2	`` Let 's get fast away '' , said Brassnose , shaking water from his mop of bleached hair .
cn21.18.0	ref	Dimly , we heard the voices of men in mortal agony but we could n't go back into that inferno .
cn21.18.1	post-adj2	Dimly , we heard the voices of men in mortal agony but we could n't go into that inferno back .
cn21.20.0	ref	`` Sommers , you bale while we row '' , Brassnose commanded .
cn21.20.1	post-adv	`` While we row Sommers , you bale '' , Brassnose commanded .
cn21.23.0	ref	Now we peered anxiously for any speck of land in the Pacific , for this interminable bailing would have to stop soon .
cn21.23.1	post-adv	For this interminable bailing would have to stop soon , now we peered anxiously for any speck of land in the Pacific .
cn21.23.2	post-adj2	Now we peered for any speck of land in the Pacific anxiously , for this interminable bailing would have to stop soon .
cn21.28.0	ref	`` God help us if we 're near the island of Eromonga .
cn21.28.1	post-adv	If we 're near the island of Eromonga `` God help us .
cn21.32.0	ref	He had been speaking of this archipelago : `` Even when the islands were under German mandate before World War 1 , Europeans gave Eromonga a wide berth .
cn21.32.1	dat-np-np	He had been speaking of this archipelago : `` Even when the islands were under German mandate before World War 1 , Europeans gave a wide berth to Eromonga .
cn21.32.2	pre-adv	He had been speaking of this archipelago : `` Europeans gave Eromonga a wide berth , even when the islands were under German mandate before World War 1 .
cn21.36.0	ref	There had been classroom guffaws which quickly subsided as Professor Griggs said dryly : `` I see your point , Pauson .
cn21.36.1	post-adv	There had been classroom guffaws which as Professor Griggs said dryly : `` I see your point , Pauson quickly subsided .
cn21.37.0	ref	Of course , males play a role there , but believe me when I say you would n't enjoy yourself one bit on Eromonga .
cn21.37.1	post-adv	Of course , males play a role there , but when I say you would n't enjoy yourself one bit on Eromonga believe me .
cn21.38.0	ref	Indeed , you would n't live long , for the females either drive the men they 've seized from neighboring islands back to their boats after exploiting them for amatory purposes , or they destroy them by revolting but ingenious methods .
cn21.38.1	post-adv	Indeed , you , for the females either drive the men they 've seized from neighboring islands back to their boats after exploiting them for amatory purposes , or they destroy them by revolting but ingenious methods , would n't live long .
cn21.40.0	ref	`` I think I know what you mean , Brassnose '' , I said .
cn21.40.1	quote	`` I think I know what you mean , Brassnose '' , said I .
cn21.44.0	ref	Three hours later , while we were bailing desperately , a dot of land came into view .
cn21.44.1	pre-adv	Three hours later a dot of land came into view , while we were bailing desperately .
cn21.45.0	ref	Foster Lukuklu Frayne made a sign over his heart with his two linked thumbs : I recognized it as an ancient Manu gesture intended to propitiate the Devil .
cn21.45.1	post-adj2	Foster Lukuklu Frayne made a sign with his two linked thumbs over his heart : I recognized it as an ancient Manu gesture intended to propitiate the Devil .
cn21.58.0	ref	Often , I heard my uncles and cousins speak of it when I was a small boy growing up in Rabaul .
cn21.58.1	post-adv	When I was a small boy growing up in Rabaul Often , I heard my uncles and cousins speak of it .
cn21.78.0	ref	Some had been there for years ; others still had whitened shreds of decayed flesh sticking to them .
cn21.78.1	post-adj2	Some had been for years there ; others still had whitened shreds of decayed flesh sticking to them .
cn21.82.0	ref	I looked with revulsion at the legs .
cn21.82.1	post-adj2	I looked at the legs with revulsion .
cn21.84.0	ref	Many small bones protruded crazily from the shreds of flesh .
cn21.84.1	post-adj2	Many small bones protruded from the shreds of flesh crazily .
cn21.85.0	ref	The man must have leaped to his death from the topmost rung of the tultul .
cn21.85.1	post-adj2	The man must have leaped from the topmost rung of the tultul to his death .
cn21.86.0	ref	As if divining my thoughts , the girl Songau smiled warmly and said in the casual tone an American woman might use in describing her rose garden : `` This is our tultul , a jumping platform , aku .
cn21.86.1	pre-adv	The girl Songau smiled warmly and said in the casual tone an American woman might use in describing her rose garden : `` This is our tultul , a jumping platform , aku , as if divining my thoughts .
cn21.89.0	ref	Our old one blew down in a storm at the time of the pokeneu festival fifteen moons ago .
cn21.89.1	post-adj2	Our old one blew down at the time of the pokeneu festival fifteen moons ago in a storm .
cn21.90.0	ref	It took thirty of our women almost six moons to build this one , which is higher and stronger than the old one .
cn21.90.1	dat-np-np	It took almost six moons to thirty of our women to build this one , which is higher and stronger than the old one .
cn21.92.0	ref	`` You have every right to be '' , I replied gravely in the Manu dialect , but my attention was fixed on Brassnose , the biggest and strongest of us .
cn21.92.1	quote	`` You have every right to be '' , replied I gravely in the Manu dialect , but my attention was fixed on Brassnose , the biggest and strongest of us .
cn21.92.2	post-adj2	`` You have every right to be '' , I replied in the Manu dialect gravely , but my attention was fixed on Brassnose , the biggest and strongest of us .
cn21.97.0	ref	He speaks your language too , for he is the grandson of a chieftain on Taui who made much magic and was strong and cunning .
cn21.97.1	post-adv	For he is the grandson of a chieftain on Taui who made much magic and was strong and cunning , he speaks your language too .
cn21.103.0	ref	At first , I thought he was out of his head , talking wildly like this .
cn21.103.1	post-adj2	At first , I thought he was out of his head , talking like this wildly .
cn21.109.0	ref	My last impression as they led him off to a stockade was of his pale face .
cn21.109.1	pre-adv	My last impression was of his pale face as they led him off to a stockade .
cn21.111.0	ref	In the hut to which I was assigned -- Max had his own quarters -- my food was brought to me by a wrinkled crone with bare drooping breasts who seemed to enjoy conversing with me in rudimentary phrases .
cn21.111.1	post-adj2	In the hut to which I was assigned -- Max had his own quarters -- my food was brought by a wrinkled crone with bare drooping breasts who seemed to enjoy conversing with me in rudimentary phrases to me .
cn21.112.0	ref	Her name was L'Turu and she told me many things .
cn21.112.1	dat-np-np	Her name was L'Turu and she told many things to me .
cn21.114.0	ref	Though I had a great dread of the island and felt I would never leave it alive , I eagerly wrote down everything she told me about its women .
cn21.114.1	pre-adv	I eagerly wrote down everything she told me about its women , Though I had a great dread of the island and felt I would never leave it alive .
cn21.116.0	ref	From L'Turu , I heard that until about 1850 the people of this island -- which was about the size of Guam or smaller -- had been of both sexes , and that the normal family life of Melanesian tribes was observed here with minor variations .
cn21.116.1	post-adj2	From L'Turu , I heard that until about 1850 the people of this island -- which was about the size of Guam or smaller -- had been of both sexes , and that the normal family life of Melanesian tribes was observed with minor variations here .
cn21.117.0	ref	But in the middle of the last century an island woman named `` Karipo '' seized a spear in the heat of an inter-tribal battle and rallied the women after their men had fled .
cn21.117.1	post-adv	After their men had fled but in the middle of the last century an island woman named `` Karipo '' seized a spear in the heat of an inter-tribal battle and rallied the women .
cn21.118.0	ref	Miraculously , Karipo and her women had succeeded in driving a hundred invaders from the isle of Pamasu back to their war canoes , after considerable loss of life on both sides .
cn21.118.1	post-adj2	Miraculously , Karipo and her women had succeeded after considerable loss of life on both sides , in driving a hundred invaders from the isle of Pamasu back to their war canoes .
cn21.122.0	ref	`` Karipo was great goddess , told our mothers that men were not necessary except to father children '' , the crone told me .
cn21.122.1	post-adv	`` Karipo was great goddess , told our mothers that except to father children men were not necessary '' , the crone told me .
cn21.122.2	quote	`` Karipo was great goddess , told our mothers that men were not necessary except to father children '' , told the crone me .
cn21.127.0	ref	`` Karipo 's women then named this place ' Eromonga ' -- manhood -- for just the strongest men could stay here .
cn21.127.1	post-adv	For just the strongest men could stay here `` Karipo 's women then named this place ' Eromonga ' -- manhood .
cn22.4.0	ref	Ramey reached out with the tire iron and dislodged a chunk of mud that was caked on the spare tire rack .
cn22.4.1	post-adj2	Ramey reached with the tire iron out and dislodged a chunk of mud that was caked on the spare tire rack .
cn22.8.0	ref	Maybe the Indian was n't too much at fault , Ramey thought .
cn22.8.1	quote	Maybe the Indian was n't too much at fault , thought Ramey .
cn22.10.0	ref	Anyway , he does n't deserve to lie there in the sun and be stared at .
cn22.10.1	post-adj2	Anyway , he does n't deserve to lie in the sun there and be stared at .
cn22.15.0	ref	Benson grinned and flipped a rock with his thumb like a marble .
cn22.15.1	post-adj2	Benson grinned and flipped a rock like a marble with his thumb .
cn22.19.0	ref	Whenever he saw someone lying in the dirt , Ramey wondered what the person had been thinking and he would try out thoughts in his own mind .
cn22.19.1	pre-adv	Ramey wondered what the person had been thinking , whenever he saw someone lying in the dirt , and he would try out thoughts in his own mind .
cn22.21.0	ref	With this realization , sometimes , he saw himself as he looked down .
cn22.21.1	pre-adj2	Sometimes , with this realization , he saw himself as he looked down .
cn22.21.2	post-adv	As he looked down with this realization , sometimes , he saw himself .
cn22.23.0	ref	`` He was n't in the car '' , Ramey said .
cn22.23.1	quote	`` He was n't in the car '' , said Ramey .
cn22.24.0	ref	`` You did n't go clear around '' , Benson said .
cn22.24.1	quote	`` You did n't go clear around '' , said Benson .
cn22.25.0	ref	`` If you want to see something , he 's back on the other side by the trunk of the car '' .
cn22.25.1	pre-adv	He 's back on the other side by the trunk of the car `` if you want to see something '' .
cn22.25.2	post-adj2	`` If you want to see something , he 's by the trunk of the car back on the other side '' .
cn22.28.0	ref	It was a trick they used to try and conceal their identity when they followed trucks to check their speed .
cn22.28.1	post-adv	It was a trick when they followed trucks to check their speed they used to try and conceal their identity .
cn22.29.0	ref	Sometimes they just parked at the side of the road and used radar on the trucks as they passed .
cn22.29.1	post-adv	Sometimes they just as they passed parked at the side of the road and used radar on the trucks .
cn22.30.0	ref	All the drivers knew about the plates and they also knew about the big floppy straw hat with shredded edges , the kind natives in travel ads wear when they are out joyfully chopping cane .
cn22.30.1	post-adv	All the drivers knew about the plates and they also knew about the big floppy straw hat with shredded edges , the kind when they are out joyfully chopping cane natives in travel ads wear .
cn22.33.0	ref	The insurance man informed them that he had talked to Crumley who was all right and that he would watch the men 's personal effects until they towed the rig back to town .
cn22.33.1	post-adv	The insurance man informed them that he had talked to Crumley who was all right and that he until they towed the rig back to town would watch the men 's personal effects .
cn22.34.0	ref	He chatted with Ramey and Benson for a minute or so in the meager shade of the trailer .
cn22.34.1	post-adj3	He chatted for a minute or so with Ramey and Benson in the meager shade of the trailer .
cn22.34.2	post-adj3	He chatted in the meager shade of the trailer for a minute or so with Ramey and Benson .
cn22.34.3	post-adj3	He chatted with Ramey and Benson in the meager shade of the trailer for a minute or so .
cn22.34.4	post-adj3	He chatted in the meager shade of the trailer with Ramey and Benson for a minute or so .
cn22.34.5	post-adj3	He chatted for a minute or so in the meager shade of the trailer with Ramey and Benson .
cn22.35.0	ref	Every so often the diminishing sound of a car came under the trailer as it slowed down for the wreck then speeded up again as it got clear .
cn22.35.1	post-adv	As it slowed down for the wreck then speeded up again as it got clear every so often the diminishing sound of a car came under the trailer .
cn22.35.2	post-adv	Every so often the diminishing sound of a car came under the trailer as it as it got clear slowed down for the wreck then speeded up again .
cn22.36.0	ref	When they were ready to leave , Benson and Ramey walked back around the rear of the trailer .
cn22.36.1	pre-adv	Benson and Ramey walked back around the rear of the trailer , when they were ready to leave .
cn22.36.2	post-adj2	When they were ready to leave , Benson and Ramey walked around the rear of the trailer back .
cn22.37.0	ref	`` There 's a body you wo n't mind looking at '' , Benson said and they stopped .
cn22.37.1	quote	`` There 's a body you wo n't mind looking at '' , said Benson and they stopped .
cn22.38.0	ref	She had driven up with her husband in a convertible with Eastern license plates , although the two drivers knew nothing at the moment about that .
cn22.38.1	post-adv	She , although the two drivers knew nothing at the moment about that , had driven up with her husband in a convertible with Eastern license plates .
cn22.38.2	post-adj2	She had driven up in a convertible with Eastern license plates with her husband , although the two drivers knew nothing at the moment about that .
cn22.40.0	ref	Slender and tanned , her dark brown hair was drawn straight back , simply .
cn22.40.1	post-adj2	Slender and tanned , her dark brown hair was drawn simply , straight back .
cn22.42.0	ref	Seeing her caused a lurch in Ramey , a recognition .
cn22.42.1	dat-np-np	Seeing her caused a recognition in Ramey , to a lurch .
cn22.50.0	ref	The girl looked around at the countryside .
cn22.50.1	post-adj2	The girl looked at the countryside around .
cn22.53.0	ref	She began to watch a blonde-haired man , also in shorts , standing right at the rear of the wrecked car in the one spot that most of the crowd had detoured slightly .
cn22.53.1	post-adj2	She began to watch a blonde-haired man , also in shorts , standing in the one spot that most of the crowd had detoured slightly right at the rear of the wrecked car .
cn22.54.0	ref	What had caught his attention was obscured by the car itself , so that neither the girl nor the truck drivers could see , but Benson knew what it was .
cn22.54.1	post-adv	What had caught his attention , so that neither the girl nor the truck drivers could see , was obscured by the car itself , but Benson knew what it was .
cn22.55.0	ref	The girl took a couple of steps toward the man in shorts when Benson , in that barefoot courtliness Ramey could never decide was real , said , `` You do n't want to go around there , Ma'am '' .
cn22.55.1	post-adv	When Benson , in that barefoot courtliness Ramey could never decide was real , said , `` You do n't want to go around there , Ma'am '' the girl took a couple of steps toward the man in shorts .
cn22.60.0	ref	One tiny detail in a happening can clog the memory and stick like meat in a crooked tooth , while the rest of the occurrence will go hazy and uncertain .
cn22.60.1	post-adv	One tiny detail in a happening , while the rest of the occurrence will go hazy and uncertain , can clog the memory and stick like meat in a crooked tooth .
cn22.66.0	ref	He turned and looked at them with clear blue eyes , immaculate eyes .
cn22.66.1	post-adj2	He turned and looked with clear blue eyes , immaculate eyes at them .
cn22.80.0	ref	Ramey heard the words again inside , weakened , the way moving water sounds through a grove of trees , until he was not sure whether it was sound or light-headedness pressing in his ears .
cn22.80.1	post-adv	Until he was not sure whether it was sound or light-headedness pressing in his ears , Ramey heard the words again inside , weakened , the way moving water sounds through a grove of trees .
cn22.80.2	post-adj2	Ramey heard the words inside again , weakened , the way moving water sounds through a grove of trees , until he was not sure whether it was sound or light-headedness pressing in his ears .
cn22.81.0	ref	The sneaker reached out once more to tap against the mass and Ramey 's vision darkened except for an unreasonable clarity of the man 's leg .
cn22.81.1	post-adj2	The sneaker reached once more out to tap against the mass and Ramey 's vision darkened except for an unreasonable clarity of the man 's leg .
cn22.83.0	ref	He stared at the shining , shining circles of hairs and heard the voice of his partner through trees , `` Do n't do that , fella .
cn22.83.1	dat-np-np	He stared at the shining , shining circles of hairs and heard the voice of his partner through trees , `` Do n't do fella , to that .
cn22.85.0	ref	The man seemed to sink a little as Ramey brought the tire iron down on his shoulder and it seemed that the blonde head was turning as he hit the man again , with his fist .
cn22.85.1	post-adv	As Ramey brought the tire iron down on his shoulder the man seemed to sink a little and it seemed that the blonde head was turning as he hit the man again , with his fist .
cn22.85.2	post-adv	The man seemed to sink a little as Ramey brought the tire iron down on his shoulder and as he hit the man again , with his fist it seemed that the blonde head was turning .
cn22.85.3	post-adj2	The man seemed to sink a little as Ramey brought the tire iron on his shoulder down and it seemed that the blonde head was turning as he hit the man again , with his fist .
cn22.91.0	ref	As he watched the man sit suddenly , a detached part of his mind observed how very difficult it was , really , to knock a man off his feet .
cn22.91.1	pre-adv	A detached part of his mind observed how very difficult it was , really , to knock a man off his feet , as he watched the man sit suddenly .
cn22.92.0	ref	He had n't done it this time and he would never again hit anyone so hard .
cn22.92.1	dat-np-np	He had n't done this time to it and he would never again hit anyone so hard .
cn22.96.0	ref	The man brought one hand up slowly and the fingers fumbled across his face until he touched his mouth .
cn22.96.1	post-adv	The man brought one hand up slowly and until he touched his mouth the fingers fumbled across his face .
cn22.96.2	post-adj2	The man brought one hand slowly up and the fingers fumbled across his face until he touched his mouth .
cn22.99.0	ref	Ramey could hear the crowd coming up rapidly behind him and the questioning voices coming over his shoulder had no identity or importance to him .
cn22.99.1	post-adj3	Ramey could hear the crowd coming rapidly up behind him and the questioning voices coming over his shoulder had no identity or importance to him .
cn22.99.2	post-adj3	Ramey could hear the crowd coming behind him rapidly up and the questioning voices coming over his shoulder had no identity or importance to him .
cn22.99.3	post-adj3	Ramey could hear the crowd coming up behind him rapidly and the questioning voices coming over his shoulder had no identity or importance to him .
cn22.99.4	post-adj3	Ramey could hear the crowd coming behind him up rapidly and the questioning voices coming over his shoulder had no identity or importance to him .
cn22.99.5	post-adj3	Ramey could hear the crowd coming rapidly behind him up and the questioning voices coming over his shoulder had no identity or importance to him .
cn22.102.0	ref	`` He 's hurt '' ! A woman 's voice said , and then he heard a sort of wail from the man 's wife .
cn22.102.1	quote	`` He 's hurt '' ! said a woman 's voice , and then he heard a sort of wail from the man 's wife .
cn22.104.0	ref	Blood dripped down the front of his sweater , soaking into a dark streak of dirt that ran diagonally across the white wool on his shoulder , as though the bright V woven into the neckline had melted , running a darker color .
cn22.104.1	post-adv	As though the bright V woven into the neckline had melted , running a darker color , blood dripped down the front of his sweater , soaking into a dark streak of dirt that ran diagonally across the white wool on his shoulder .
cn22.105.0	ref	The girl kneeled by her husband with one arm at his back .
cn22.105.1	post-adj2	The girl kneeled with one arm at his back by her husband .
cn22.108.0	ref	The girl looked around quickly at several of the people .
cn22.108.1	post-adj3	The girl looked quickly around at several of the people .
cn22.108.2	post-adj3	The girl looked at several of the people quickly around .
cn22.108.3	post-adj3	The girl looked around at several of the people quickly .
cn22.108.4	post-adj3	The girl looked at several of the people around quickly .
cn22.108.5	post-adj3	The girl looked quickly at several of the people around .
cn22.113.0	ref	A shine in her eyes suddenly became tears and she turned back to her husband again .
cn22.113.1	post-adj3	A shine in her eyes suddenly became tears and she turned to her husband back again .
cn22.113.2	post-adj3	A shine in her eyes suddenly became tears and she turned again to her husband back .
cn22.113.3	post-adj3	A shine in her eyes suddenly became tears and she turned back again to her husband .
cn22.113.4	post-adj3	A shine in her eyes suddenly became tears and she turned again back to her husband .
cn22.113.5	post-adj3	A shine in her eyes suddenly became tears and she turned to her husband again back .
cn22.120.0	ref	It 's all over now , the driver thought as he saw the patrolman turn and walk rapidly down along the trailer toward them .
cn22.120.1	post-adv	As he saw the patrolman turn and walk rapidly down along the trailer toward them it 's all over now , the driver thought .
cn22.120.2	quote	It 's all over now , thought the driver as he saw the patrolman turn and walk rapidly down along the trailer toward them .
cn22.120.3	post-adj2	It 's all now over , the driver thought as he saw the patrolman turn and walk rapidly down along the trailer toward them .
cn22.122.0	ref	He saw the dark sweat spots flip in and out of sight under the patrolman 's swinging arms and in the leather holster that swaggered and rolled at the side of his stocky body , the sun left a smoky shine on the narrow strip of blue metal that ran between the horned handles of his pistol .
cn22.122.1	post-adj2	He saw the dark sweat spots flip under the patrolman 's swinging arms in and out of sight and in the leather holster that swaggered and rolled at the side of his stocky body , the sun left a smoky shine on the narrow strip of blue metal that ran between the horned handles of his pistol .
cn22.123.0	ref	`` All right , step back '' ! The patrolman said to no one in particular as he pushed between the fat man in the baseball cap and a young boy in levis .
cn22.123.1	post-adv	As he pushed between the fat man in the baseball cap and a young boy in levis `` all right , step back '' ! The patrolman said to no one in particular .
cn23.1.0	ref	Then he calmly and carefully slugged the remaining five shots into the venomous head -- caught in the wicker back of the chair , the eyes dead on him as the life finally went out of the brute .
cn23.1.1	post-adv	Then he calmly and carefully slugged the remaining five shots into as the life finally went out of the brute the venomous head -- caught in the wicker back of the chair , the eyes dead on him .
cn23.3.0	ref	He slammed the door and listened as his servants ran up , alarmed at the sound of the shots .
cn23.3.1	post-adv	He as his servants ran up , alarmed at the sound of the shots slammed the door and listened .
cn23.4.0	ref	He heard their chattering , and then the sounds of hacking as they dismembered the snake right on the porch with wood axes .
cn23.4.1	post-adv	He as they dismembered the snake right on the porch with wood axes heard their chattering , and then the sounds of hacking .
cn23.4.2	post-adj2	He heard their chattering , and then the sounds of hacking as they dismembered the snake with wood axes right on the porch .
cn23.5.0	ref	It was only then that he turned to look at Penny .
cn23.5.1	post-adj2	It was then only that he turned to look at Penny .
cn23.6.0	ref	She was sitting on the edge of the bed again , back in the same position where the snake had found her .
cn23.6.1	post-adj3	She was sitting again on the edge of the bed , back in the same position where the snake had found her .
cn23.6.2	post-adj3	She was sitting back in the same position where the snake had found her again , on the edge of the bed .
cn23.6.3	post-adj3	She was sitting on the edge of the bed back in the same position where the snake had found her , again .
cn23.6.4	post-adj3	She was sitting , back in the same position where the snake had found her , on the edge of the bed again .
cn23.6.5	post-adj3	She was sitting again , back in the same position where the snake had found her on the edge of the bed .
cn23.9.0	ref	She 's got guts , thought Keith .
cn23.9.1	iquote	She 's got guts , Keith thought .
cn23.18.0	ref	He knew her mind pretty well , by now , its quick perceptions and sympathies , its painful insistence on truth and directness , its capacity for love almost too deep for a man to reciprocate , even in part .
cn23.18.1	post-adj2	He knew her mind by now , pretty well , its quick perceptions and sympathies , its painful insistence on truth and directness , its capacity for love almost too deep for a man to reciprocate , even in part .
cn23.20.0	ref	`` I realize that this is hardly the time to say it , Penny '' , said Keith .
cn23.20.1	iquote	`` I realize that this is hardly the time to say it , Penny '' , Keith said .
cn23.21.0	ref	`` But knowing you , I know that you 're glad to be alive , and grateful -- and sorry because I killed the snake , even though I had to .
cn23.21.1	post-adv	`` But knowing you , I know that you 're glad to be alive , and grateful -- and sorry because , even though I had to , I killed the snake .
cn23.24.0	ref	`` Yes '' , she said , almost in a whisper , as if admitting to a crime .
cn23.24.1	post-adv	As if admitting to a crime , `` yes '' , she said , almost in a whisper .
cn23.25.0	ref	`` The snake was beautiful , was n't it '' ? Asked Keith , his voice getting harsher in spite of himself , as he struggled to control his growing anger .
cn23.25.1	post-adv	`` The snake was beautiful , was n't it '' ? Asked Keith , as he struggled to control his growing anger , his voice getting harsher in spite of himself .
cn23.33.0	ref	You love this village and these stinking brown people because they 're God 's creatures , too .
cn23.33.1	post-adv	Because they 're God 's creatures , too you love this village and these stinking brown people .
cn23.34.0	ref	And you love Ahmiri , that black bastard of a servant even a little more , because he 's a beautiful man .
cn23.34.1	post-adv	Because he 's a beautiful man , and you love Ahmiri , that black bastard of a servant even a little more .
cn23.35.0	ref	And he loves you because you 're a beautiful woman .
cn23.35.1	post-adv	Because you 're a beautiful woman and he loves you .
cn23.39.0	ref	You actually hate me -- and we both know it -- because I killed that filthy snake .
cn23.39.1	post-adv	Because I killed that filthy snake you actually hate me -- and we both know it .
cn23.43.0	ref	She softly let herself into the bed , and took her regular side , away from the door , where she slept better because Keith was between her and the invader .
cn23.43.1	post-adv	She softly let herself into the bed , and took her regular side , away from the door , where because Keith was between her and the invader she slept better .
cn23.47.0	ref	For a brief period each year , the rays of the sun are warm enough to melt some of the snows piled a mile deep at the base of the headwalls , and then the pinnacles glisten in the daytime at high noon , and billions of gallons of water begin their slow seepage under the glaciers and across the rockstrewn hanging valleys on their long , meandering journey to the sea -- running east past the sky-carving massifs of Gurla Mandhata and Kemchenjunga , then turning south and curling down through the jungles of Assam , past the Khasi Hills , and into Bengal , past Sirinjani and Madaripur , until the hard water of the melting snows mingles with the soft drainage of fields and at length fans out to meld with the teeming salt depths of the Bay of Bengal .
cn23.47.1	pre-adj2	Each year for a brief period , the rays of the sun are warm enough to melt some of the snows piled a mile deep at the base of the headwalls , and then the pinnacles glisten in the daytime at high noon , and billions of gallons of water begin their slow seepage under the glaciers and across the rockstrewn hanging valleys on their long , meandering journey to the sea -- running east past the sky-carving massifs of Gurla Mandhata and Kemchenjunga , then turning south and curling down through the jungles of Assam , past the Khasi Hills , and into Bengal , past Sirinjani and Madaripur , until the hard water of the melting snows mingles with the soft drainage of fields and at length fans out to meld with the teeming salt depths of the Bay of Bengal .
cn23.47.2	post-adv	For a brief period each year , the rays of the sun are warm enough to melt some of the snows piled a mile deep at the base of the headwalls , and then the pinnacles glisten in the daytime at high noon , and billions of gallons of water begin their slow seepage under the glaciers and across the rockstrewn hanging valleys on their long , meandering journey to the sea -- running east past the sky-carving massifs of Gurla Mandhata and Kemchenjunga , then , until the hard water of the melting snows mingles with the soft drainage of fields and at length fans out to meld with the teeming salt depths of the Bay of Bengal , turning south and curling down through the jungles of Assam , past the Khasi Hills , and into Bengal , past Sirinjani and Madaripur .
cn23.49.0	ref	But Keith looked down more than up .
cn23.49.1	post-adj2	But Keith looked more than up down .
cn23.53.0	ref	Wing Commanders in the RAF do not imply survival in the future either in their orders or in their attitudes , to their men or to themselves .
cn23.53.1	post-adj2	Wing Commanders in the RAF do not imply survival in the future to their men or to themselves , either in their orders or in their attitudes .
cn23.56.0	ref	The RAF was Britain 's weapon of attrition , and flying a fighter plane was the way her sons could serve her best at this point in the war .
cn23.56.1	post-adj2	The RAF was Britain 's weapon of attrition , and flying a fighter plane was the way her sons could serve her at this point in the war best .
cn23.58.0	ref	And he knew that the men talked about him behind his back , saying that he was one up on everybody else -- including the pilot of the plane with the swastika on it -- because he was chemically incapable of fear .
cn23.58.1	post-adv	And he knew that the men talked about him behind his back , saying that because he was chemically incapable of fear he was one up on everybody else -- including the pilot of the plane with the swastika on it .
cn23.58.2	post-adj2	And he knew that the men talked behind his back about him , saying that he was one up on everybody else -- including the pilot of the plane with the swastika on it -- because he was chemically incapable of fear .
cn23.64.0	ref	And he would have enjoyed it just as much if he had been a Nazi .
cn23.64.1	post-adv	And he would if he had been a Nazi have enjoyed it just as much .
cn23.65.0	ref	Nowadays , we talk as though the blitz were just a short skirmish .
cn23.65.1	post-adv	As though the blitz were just a short skirmish nowadays , we talk .
cn23.69.0	ref	It took a long time before the British tipped the balance .
cn23.69.1	post-adv	Before the British tipped the balance it took a long time .
cn23.74.0	ref	Penny knew him better , on her part .
cn23.74.1	post-adj2	Penny knew him on her part , better .
cn23.76.0	ref	They do n't go for bull-like muscle , as a rule .
cn23.76.1	post-adj2	They do n't go as a rule , for bull-like muscle .
cn23.79.0	ref	His hair was black , already greying at the temples in the classic beauty-idiom , the only one permitted to a man .
cn23.79.1	post-adj2	His hair was black , already greying in the classic beauty-idiom , the only one permitted to a man at the temples .
cn23.86.0	ref	The Nazis knew this , of course , and while their chief quarry was the industrial centers , they let a few drop every time they went over , hoping for a lucky hit .
cn23.86.1	pre-adv	The Nazis knew this , of course , and they let a few drop every time they went over , hoping for a lucky hit , while their chief quarry was the industrial centers .
cn23.90.0	ref	There was a measure of protection in its concrete walls and ceiling , but the engineers who hastily installed it were well aware that concrete is not much better than prayer , if as efficacious , when a direct hit comes along .
cn23.90.1	post-adv	There was a measure of protection in its concrete walls and ceiling , but the engineers who hastily installed it were well aware that , if as efficacious , concrete is not much better than prayer when a direct hit comes along .
cn23.90.2	post-adv	There was a measure of protection in its concrete walls and ceiling , but the engineers who hastily installed it were well aware that , when a direct hit comes along , concrete is not much better than prayer , if as efficacious .
cn23.93.0	ref	There was a shattering , cracking sound as the concrete started to buckle , the air filled with dust and flying debris , and everyone in the room -- men and women hit the floor and used the desks as turtlebacks , as ordered .
cn23.93.1	post-adv	As the concrete started to buckle there was a shattering , cracking sound , the air filled with dust and flying debris , and everyone in the room -- men and women hit the floor and used the desks as turtlebacks , as ordered .
cn23.93.2	post-adv	There was a shattering , cracking sound as the concrete started to buckle , the air filled with dust and flying debris , and , as ordered , everyone in the room -- men and women hit the floor and used the desks as turtlebacks .
cn23.95.0	ref	They stood there , just the two of them , in the rocking , shattering blast .
cn23.95.1	post-adj2	They stood in the rocking , shattering blast , just the two of them , there .
cn23.99.0	ref	Keith 's eyes met Penny 's as they stood there in this strange marriage of destruction .
cn23.99.1	post-adv	As they stood there in this strange marriage of destruction Keith 's eyes met Penny 's .
cn23.99.2	post-adj2	Keith 's eyes met Penny 's as they stood in this strange marriage of destruction there .
cn23.100.0	ref	And , as the others began to crawl out from beneath the desks and tend to those wounded , and mark the several killed , he climbed across the debris to Penny and took her hand in his .
cn23.100.1	pre-adv	And he climbed across the debris to Penny and took her hand in his , as the others began to crawl out from beneath the desks and tend to those wounded , and mark the several killed .
cn23.103.0	ref	She came from Ohio , from what she called a `` small farm '' of two hundred acres , as indeed it was to farmer-type farmers .
cn23.103.1	post-adv	She came from Ohio , from what , as indeed it was to farmer-type farmers , she called a `` small farm '' of two hundred acres .
cn23.108.0	ref	He did n't tell her the truth he now freely admitted to himself .
cn23.108.1	dat-np-np	He did n't tell the truth he now freely admitted to himself to her .
cn23.113.0	ref	When they got to Shillong , in Assam , he was happy .
cn23.113.1	pre-adv	He was happy , when they got to Shillong , in Assam .
cn23.118.0	ref	He even hunted elephant , although the Asian elephant is not quite as ferocious as his African cousin .
cn23.118.1	post-adv	Although the Asian elephant is not quite as ferocious as his African cousin , he even hunted elephant .
cn23.120.0	ref	These were the ones Keith sought out -- the loners , the ones who killed for the joy of it , like himself .
cn23.120.1	post-adj2	These were the ones Keith sought out -- the loners , the ones who killed like himself , for the joy of it .
cn23.121.0	ref	He and Penny would go out on tame elephants , raised from babyhood in the keddah .
cn23.121.1	post-adj2	He and Penny would go on tame elephants , raised from babyhood in the keddah out .
cn23.122.0	ref	And while he was ever alert for game , and most particularly a tiger , Penny marvelled at the Eden they were traversing .
cn23.122.1	pre-adv	And Penny marvelled at the Eden they were traversing , while he was ever alert for game , and most particularly a tiger .
cn23.123.0	ref	They came upon cheetal deer at woodland pools .
cn23.123.1	post-adj2	They came at woodland pools upon cheetal deer .
cn23.126.0	ref	Mouse deer played around the feet of the elephants , or fled when the mighty legs thrashed too close .
cn23.126.1	post-adv	Mouse deer when the mighty legs thrashed too close played around the feet of the elephants , or fled .
cn23.127.0	ref	Wild boar watched their progress with little pig eyes , and grunted derision when they did n't consider such game worthy of a shot from the .
cn23.127.1	post-adv	Wild boar when they did n't consider such game worthy of a shot from the watched their progress with little pig eyes , and grunted derision .
cn24.2.0	ref	He and his safety man , Herr Schaffner , swam up to the boarding ladder together .
cn24.2.1	post-adj2	He and his safety man , Herr Schaffner , swam together up to the boarding ladder .
cn24.4.0	ref	Robinson clambered heavily into the boat , sat down , and stripped off his triple-tank assembly .
cn24.4.1	post-adj2	Robinson clambered into the boat heavily , sat down , and stripped off his triple-tank assembly .
cn24.8.0	ref	A phony blonde hanging onto a bygone youth and beauty , but irreparably stringy in the neck , she was already working on her second gin and tonic , though it was not yet ten A.M.
cn24.8.1	post-adv	A phony blonde hanging onto a bygone youth and beauty , but irreparably stringy in the neck , she , though it was not yet ten A.M. , was already working on her second gin and tonic
cn24.9.0	ref	`` I loused it '' , Rob said , with a savage note in his voice .
cn24.9.1	quote	`` I loused it '' , said Rob , with a savage note in his voice .
cn24.14.0	ref	`` The equipment was fine '' , Rob stated , standing up .
cn24.14.1	quote	`` The equipment was fine '' , stated , standing Rob up .
cn24.16.0	ref	He stared stonily at the floor .
cn24.16.1	post-adj2	He stared at the floor stonily .
cn24.18.0	ref	I 've been that far half a dozen times .
cn24.18.1	post-adj2	I 've been half a dozen times that far .
cn24.20.0	ref	`` Well , I get it '' , Artie said , still on the ladder .
cn24.20.1	quote	`` Well , I get it '' , said Artie , still on the ladder .
cn24.22.0	ref	And you also got this little spark in your bird-brain that tells you to turn around before you drown yourself .
cn24.22.1	post-adv	And you also got this little spark in your bird-brain that tells you before you drown yourself to turn around .
cn24.24.0	ref	`` No , it was n't that '' , Rob said .
cn24.24.1	quote	`` No , it was n't that '' , said Rob .
cn24.26.0	ref	`` When I came up , damnit , I thought I was going down .
cn24.26.1	pre-adv	Damnit , I thought I was going down `` when I came up .
cn24.27.0	ref	I came up maybe fifty feet before I knew what was happening '' .
cn24.27.1	post-adv	Before I knew what was happening I came up maybe fifty feet '' .
cn24.29.0	ref	`` That 's right '' , Robinson said .
cn24.29.1	quote	`` That 's right '' , said Robinson .
cn24.31.0	ref	But when it happens to you like that , I tell you , and you 're a hundred feet from where you thought you were -- well , it makes you think .
cn24.31.1	pre-adv	But well , it makes you think -- when it happens to you like that , I tell you , and you 're a hundred feet from where you thought you were .
cn24.31.2	post-adj2	But when it happens like that to you , I tell you , and you 're a hundred feet from where you thought you were -- well , it makes you think .
cn24.32.0	ref	You do n't head back down again .
cn24.32.1	post-adj2	You do n't head again back down .
cn24.35.0	ref	He had his voice under control again : no one became aware that he was terrified by what had just happened to him .
cn24.35.1	post-adj2	He had his voice again under control : no one became aware that he was terrified by what had just happened to him .
cn24.42.0	ref	`` Well , that 's the only way to be '' , Mrs. Forsythe said , and gave her brassy laugh .
cn24.42.1	quote	`` Well , that 's the only way to be '' , said , and gave Mrs. Forsythe her brassy laugh .
cn24.47.0	ref	Personally , I do n't blame him for giving up the dive , much as I regret losing the story '' .
cn24.47.1	post-adj2	Personally , I do n't blame him much as I regret losing the story , for giving up the dive '' .
cn24.48.0	ref	`` Nobody 's giving anything up '' , Robinson said .
cn24.48.1	quote	`` Nobody 's giving anything up '' , said Robinson .
cn24.50.0	ref	`` You think I got you and Artie and Herr Schaffner all the way out here just for the boat ride ?
cn24.50.1	post-adj2	`` You think I got you and Artie and Herr Schaffner just for the boat ride all the way out here ?
cn24.51.0	ref	I 'm going down again '' .
cn24.51.1	post-adj2	I 'm going again down '' .
cn24.52.0	ref	`` That 's my boy '' ! Mr. Forsythe exclaimed .
cn24.52.1	quote	`` That 's my boy '' ! exclaimed Mr. Forsythe .
cn24.55.0	ref	He went to Key West every fall and winter and was the only man in town who did not know that his title of `` Commodore '' was never used without irony .
cn24.55.1	post-adj2	He went every fall and winter to Key West and was the only man in town who did not know that his title of `` Commodore '' was never used without irony .
cn24.58.0	ref	`` Why '' , he went on , `` when Rob asked me if he could make his dive on this trip , I did n't think twice about it .
cn24.58.1	pre-adv	`` Why '' , he went on , I did n't think twice about it `` when Rob asked me if he could make his dive on this trip .
cn24.59.0	ref	I 've helped him along ever since he was a youngster hanging around his brother 's tackle shop .
cn24.59.1	post-adv	I ever since he was a youngster hanging around his brother 's tackle shop 've helped him along .
cn24.60.0	ref	Hell , I gave him the first decent job he ever had , six , seven -- how many years ago was it , Rob '' ?
cn24.60.1	dat-np-np	Hell , I gave the first decent job he ever had to him , six , seven -- how many years ago was it , Rob '' ?
cn24.63.0	ref	`` Excuse me '' , he said abruptly .
cn24.63.1	quote	`` Excuse me '' , said he abruptly .
cn24.64.0	ref	He went down the steps to the galley and sleeping quarters ; went into the forward stateroom and locked the door behind him .
cn24.64.1	post-adj2	He went to the galley and sleeping quarters down the steps ; went into the forward stateroom and locked the door behind him .
cn24.65.0	ref	`` When you got ta go , you got ta go '' , Mrs. Forsythe said .
cn24.65.1	quote	`` When you got ta go , you got ta go '' , said Mrs. Forsythe .
cn24.65.2	pre-adv	`` You got ta go , when you got ta go '' , Mrs. Forsythe said .
cn24.67.0	ref	He was disturbed by what had happened on the dive and by what he remembered of a conversation he had had the night before with the German , who had come out of the head while he was fixing himself a drink in the galley .
cn24.67.1	post-adv	He was disturbed by what had happened on the dive and by what he remembered of a conversation he had had the night before with the German , who while he was fixing himself a drink in the galley had come out of the head .
cn24.69.0	ref	`` Can I make you one '' ?
cn24.69.1	dat-np-np	`` Can I make one to you '' ?
cn24.70.0	ref	`` No thank you very much '' , Schaffner had answered in his accented English .
cn24.70.1	quote	`` No thank you very much '' , had answered Schaffner in his accented English .
cn24.74.0	ref	His open face seemed to promise a sort of innocence , until one looked into his eyes , which had no warmth in them but only alert intelligence .
cn24.74.1	post-adv	Until one looked into his eyes , which had no warmth in them but only alert intelligence , his open face seemed to promise a sort of innocence .
cn24.81.0	ref	`` And if the dive goes OK he has the exclusive import rights to your line for this country , is that right '' ?
cn24.81.1	pre-adv	`` And he has the exclusive import rights to your line for this country , if the dive goes OK , is that right '' ?
cn24.87.0	ref	Shaffner looked at him , altogether without guile , and shrugged his shoulders , making a little spreading gesture with his two hands .
cn24.87.1	post-adj2	Shaffner looked altogether without guile , at him , and shrugged his shoulders , making a little spreading gesture with his two hands .
cn24.95.0	ref	`` Did you tell him all this '' ? He asked .
cn24.95.1	dat-np-np	`` Did you tell all this to him '' ? He asked .
cn24.98.0	ref	Never , never did I offer him the exclusive rights .
cn24.98.1	dat-np-np	Never , never did I offer the exclusive rights to him .
cn24.108.0	ref	`` If you will pardon , I think it would be better if not .
cn24.108.1	post-adv	`` If you will pardon , I think it if not would be better .
cn24.108.2	pre-adv	I think it would be better if not `` if you will pardon .
cn24.114.0	ref	`` You will make him unhappy and anxious '' , the German said .
cn24.114.1	quote	`` You will make him unhappy and anxious '' , said the German .
cn24.115.0	ref	`` At 200 , 300 , 400 feet under the water , when he must be paying very much attention , he will be thinking about what you are telling him .
cn24.115.1	pre-adv	`` At 200 , 300 , 400 feet under the water he will be thinking about what you are telling him , when he must be paying very much attention .
cn24.116.0	ref	It is not good , Mr. Waddell : you will do him great harm '' .
cn24.116.1	dat-np-np	It is not good , Mr. Waddell : you will do great harm to him '' .
cn24.118.0	ref	Waddell came back from the door and sat on a bunk .
cn24.118.1	post-adj2	Waddell came from the door back and sat on a bunk .
cn24.119.0	ref	`` I am an honest man '' , the German said with fervor .
cn24.119.1	quote	`` I am an honest man '' , said the German with fervor .
cn24.120.0	ref	`` I will give Mr. Roy his due for this dive .
cn24.120.1	dat-np-np	`` I will give his due to Mr. Roy for this dive .
cn24.126.0	ref	The German 's words worked on the newspaperman like a reprieve from an odious duty .
cn24.126.1	post-adj2	The German 's words worked like a reprieve from an odious duty on the newspaperman .
cn24.129.0	ref	`` I think maybe you 're right , Schaffner '' , he said .
cn24.129.1	quote	`` I think maybe you 're right , Schaffner '' , said he .
cn24.136.0	ref	The story was shaping up nicely in his mind : the young pioneer , as of old , altruistically braving the unknown ; the rewards prompt and juicy in modern big-business America .
cn24.136.1	post-adj2	The story was shaping up in his mind nicely : the young pioneer , as of old , altruistically braving the unknown ; the rewards prompt and juicy in modern big-business America .
cn24.138.0	ref	`` Thank you '' , the German had said courteously .
cn24.138.1	quote	`` Thank you '' , had said the German courteously .
cn24.140.0	ref	Now , in that same cabin , Robinson fell to his knees beside a bunk .
cn24.140.1	pre-adj2	In that same cabin , now , Robinson fell to his knees beside a bunk .
cn24.140.2	post-adj2	Now , in that same cabin , Robinson fell beside a bunk to his knees .
cn24.143.0	ref	`` Blessed Saint Nicholas , I thank thee for getting me out of that mess and sending me up instead of down when I was bewildered .
cn24.143.1	post-adv	`` Blessed Saint Nicholas , I thank thee for when I was bewildered getting me out of that mess and sending me up instead of down .
cn24.149.0	ref	Let me set the record this time , and let me get back OK , so the German will give me the exclusive .
cn24.149.1	dat-np-np	Let me set the record this time , and let me get back OK , so the German will give the exclusive to me .
cn24.149.2	post-adv	So the German will give me the exclusive , let me set the record this time , and let me get back OK .
cn24.154.0	ref	As he reached for the door there was a knock on it and when he opened he found Artie , who came in and sat down on a bunk .
cn24.154.1	pre-adv	There was a knock on it , as he reached for the door , and when he opened he found Artie , who came in and sat down on a bunk .
cn24.154.2	pre-adv	As he reached for the door there was a knock on it and he found Artie , who came in and sat down on a bunk , when he opened .
cn24.156.0	ref	He waited awhile before he said , `` Roy , you know your decompression table , do n't you '' ?
cn24.156.1	post-adv	Before he said , `` Roy , you know your decompression table , do n't you '' he waited awhile ?
cn24.157.0	ref	`` You know I know it '' , Robinson answered warily .
cn24.157.1	quote	`` You know I know it '' , answered Robinson warily .
cn24.158.0	ref	`` You came straight up from 275 without a stop '' , Artie said .
cn24.158.1	quote	`` You came straight up from 275 without a stop '' , said Artie .
cn24.158.2	post-adj2	`` You came without a stop straight up from 275 '' , Artie said .
cn24.160.0	ref	Anyway , I was n't down long enough to matter .
cn24.160.1	post-adj2	Anyway , I was n't long enough to matter down .
cn24.162.0	ref	`` You know what they say about two deep dives in one day '' , Artie went on , still twirling the snorkle and studying it intently .
cn24.162.1	quote	`` You know what they say about two deep dives in one day '' , went Artie on , still twirling the snorkle and studying it intently .
cn24.163.0	ref	`` I do n't think you should go down again '' .
cn24.163.1	post-adj2	`` I do n't think you should go again down '' .
cn25.1.0	ref	Early that day Matsuo saw a marine .
cn25.1.1	pre-adj2	That day early Matsuo saw a marine .
cn25.2.0	ref	The enemy came looming around a bend in the trail and Matsuo took a hasty shot , then fled without knowing the result , ran until breath was a pain in his chest and his legs were rubbery .
cn25.2.1	post-adv	The enemy came looming around a bend in the trail and Matsuo until breath was a pain in his chest and his legs were rubbery took a hasty shot , then fled without knowing the result , ran .
cn25.3.0	ref	As his feet slowed , he felt ashamed of the panic and resolved to make a stand .
cn25.3.1	pre-adv	He felt ashamed of the panic and resolved to make a stand , as his feet slowed .
cn25.7.0	ref	He had no doubt the marine was the lead scout of a column , and while his shot had probably bred indecision , they would soon come hunting .
cn25.7.1	pre-adv	He had no doubt the marine was the lead scout of a column , and they would soon come hunting , while his shot had probably bred indecision .
cn25.11.0	ref	He murmured to himself , with firmness : `` No surrender '' .
cn25.11.1	post-adj2	He murmured with firmness , to himself : `` No surrender '' .
cn25.19.0	ref	He sighed and leaned for a moment against the trunk .
cn25.19.1	post-adj2	He sighed and leaned against the trunk for a moment .
cn25.23.0	ref	As he looked up from picking at a leg ulcer , he saw a marine in the jungle across the clearing .
cn25.23.1	pre-adv	He saw a marine in the jungle across the clearing , as he looked up from picking at a leg ulcer .
cn25.23.2	post-adj2	As he looked from picking at a leg ulcer up , he saw a marine in the jungle across the clearing .
cn25.25.0	ref	The marine came to the edge of the green jungle mist and stayed , as though debating whether to brave the sunlight .
cn25.25.1	post-adv	The marine , as though debating whether to brave the sunlight , came to the edge of the green jungle mist and stayed .
cn25.30.0	ref	Matsuo lifted his rifle , easing the sling under his left upper arm for steadiness .
cn25.30.1	post-adj2	Matsuo lifted his rifle , easing the sling for steadiness under his left upper arm .
cn25.33.0	ref	Even now , like a ringing in his ears , he heard the wooooosh of flame-throwers squirting great orange billows .
cn25.33.1	pre-adj2	Like a ringing in his ears , even now , he heard the wooooosh of flame-throwers squirting great orange billows .
cn25.36.0	ref	When he sank on his knees , they had allowed him to char without administering the stroke of mercy .
cn25.36.1	pre-adv	They had allowed him to char without administering the stroke of mercy , when he sank on his knees .
cn25.38.0	ref	The callous marines had laughed at each other 's retching , while stacking bodies .
cn25.38.1	post-adv	The callous marines , while stacking bodies , had laughed at each other 's retching .
cn25.41.0	ref	Apprehensively he peered to the left , to the right into the leafy , vine-crisscrossed maze .
cn25.41.1	post-adj2	Apprehensively he peered into the leafy , vine-crisscrossed maze to the left , to the right .
cn25.42.0	ref	He decided that the marines must be deploying around the meadow , with the one left to distract him .
cn25.42.1	post-adv	He decided that the marines must , with the one left to distract him , be deploying around the meadow .
cn25.46.0	ref	Because he could n't hear them , he was more convinced they were there .
cn25.46.1	pre-adv	He was more convinced they were there , because he could n't hear them .
cn25.49.0	ref	While his comrades cocked the trap , that one behaved as if it was some dull maneuver .
cn25.49.1	pre-adv	That one behaved as if it was some dull maneuver , while his comrades cocked the trap .
cn25.62.0	ref	It ended when he tumbled ; but jumping right up , he staggered in no particular direction .
cn25.62.1	post-adv	When he tumbled it ended ; but jumping right up , he staggered in no particular direction .
cn25.65.0	ref	When he got closer to the tree , Matsuo noted the wild look on his face .
cn25.65.1	pre-adv	Matsuo noted the wild look on his face , when he got closer to the tree .
cn25.71.0	ref	They could come on him now without difficulty .
cn25.71.1	post-adj3	They could come now on him without difficulty .
cn25.71.2	post-adj3	They could come without difficulty now on him .
cn25.71.3	post-adj3	They could come on him without difficulty now .
cn25.71.4	post-adj3	They could come without difficulty on him now .
cn25.71.5	post-adj3	They could come now without difficulty on him .
cn25.73.0	ref	The marine was alone , for they were impatient people and by now would have vied to knock him from the tree .
cn25.73.1	post-adv	For they were impatient people and by now would have vied to knock him from the tree , the marine was alone .
cn25.76.0	ref	Matsuo jumped when the hidden arm flopped out .
cn25.76.1	post-adv	When the hidden arm flopped out Matsuo jumped .
cn25.79.0	ref	Heat , in the sunlight , pressed in like an invisible crowd .
cn25.79.1	post-adj2	Heat , in the sunlight , pressed like an invisible crowd in .
cn25.84.0	ref	Maintaining his clutch on the hair , Matsuo watched the closed eyes while rummaging in the jacket pockets .
cn25.84.1	post-adv	While rummaging in the jacket pockets maintaining his clutch on the hair , Matsuo watched the closed eyes .
cn25.88.0	ref	He did n't smoke and could not light fires with a flintless lighter ; he had no use any longer for exact time , even had the watch been running .
cn25.88.1	post-adv	He did n't smoke and could not light fires with a flintless lighter ; even had the watch been running , he had no use any longer for exact time .
cn25.92.0	ref	The cap was stuck and made a thin rusty squeaking as he applied pressure .
cn25.92.1	post-adv	The cap as he applied pressure was stuck and made a thin rusty squeaking .
cn25.108.0	ref	When he rolled on the left side , propping on his left elbow , Matsuo seized his hair and pulled him back over .
cn25.108.1	pre-adv	Matsuo seized his hair and pulled him back over , when he rolled on the left side , propping on his left elbow .
cn25.110.0	ref	Awkwardly with one hand Matsuo got the cap back on the water bottle .
cn25.110.1	pre-adj2	With one hand awkwardly Matsuo got the cap back on the water bottle .
cn25.112.0	ref	In the caves , with other supplies , they had kept cases of sake .
cn25.112.1	pre-adj2	With other supplies , in the caves , they had kept cases of sake .
cn25.119.0	ref	The sun was noon high and Matsuo perspired until his body was dripping .
cn25.119.1	post-adv	The sun was noon high and until his body was dripping Matsuo perspired .
cn25.123.0	ref	He must have saturated himself in the drink , for the bullet not to shock him out of his drunken haze .
cn25.123.1	post-adv	He must , for the bullet not to shock him out of his drunken haze , have saturated himself in the drink .
cn25.132.0	ref	Matsuo wrenched free and burned the hands into retreat ; burned the other cheek ; burned each hand when they came groping again .
cn25.132.1	post-adv	Matsuo wrenched free and when they came groping again burned the hands into retreat ; burned the other cheek ; burned each hand .
cn25.137.0	ref	The marine , hands on cheeks , rolled by his unwounded side onto his stomach .
cn25.137.1	post-adj2	The marine , hands on cheeks , rolled onto his stomach by his unwounded side .
cn25.142.0	ref	As Matsuo climbed by using the vines and kicking his feet against the trunk , a mood of gloom immersed him like a jungle shadow .
cn25.142.1	pre-adv	A mood of gloom immersed him like a jungle shadow , as Matsuo climbed by using the vines and kicking his feet against the trunk .
cn25.144.0	ref	In the jungle , birds were mute , while insects preserved only the monotony of living .
cn25.144.1	post-adv	While insects preserved only the monotony of living , in the jungle , birds were mute .
cn25.147.0	ref	Then he astonished Matsuo by pushing and dragging himself until he sat .
cn25.147.1	post-adv	Then he astonished Matsuo by until he sat pushing and dragging himself .
cn25.160.0	ref	The marine slumped forward into a bow like a priest before an idol .
cn25.160.1	post-adj3	The marine slumped into a bow forward like a priest before an idol .
cn25.160.2	post-adj3	The marine slumped like a priest before an idol into a bow forward .
cn25.160.3	post-adj3	The marine slumped forward like a priest before an idol into a bow .
cn25.160.4	post-adj3	The marine slumped like a priest before an idol forward into a bow .
cn25.160.5	post-adj3	The marine slumped into a bow like a priest before an idol forward .
cn25.163.0	ref	His years of campaigning had taught him the value of water discipline .
cn25.163.1	dat-np-np	His years of campaigning had taught the value of water discipline to him .
cn25.167.0	ref	The marine shouted for it until it seemed that his voice had to crack .
cn25.167.1	post-adv	Until it seemed that his voice had to crack the marine shouted for it .
cn25.170.0	ref	And when this was gone , he had n't even a little bitter tablet to purify other water if he were to discover some stagnant jungle pool .
cn25.170.1	post-adv	And when this was gone , he had n't even a little bitter tablet if he were to discover some stagnant jungle pool to purify other water .
cn25.170.2	pre-adv	And he had n't even a little bitter tablet to purify other water if he were to discover some stagnant jungle pool , when this was gone .
cn25.177.0	ref	There is nothing for you '' , Matsuo said .
cn25.177.1	quote	There is nothing for you '' , said Matsuo .
cn25.178.0	ref	`` Your superiors will certainly beat you for your desertion , besides the dishonor of it .
cn25.178.1	post-adj2	`` Your superiors will certainly beat you besides the dishonor of it , for your desertion .
cn26.3.0	ref	Blue Throat was slumped with his back against the bar , elbows supporting his massive frame .
cn26.3.1	post-adv	Blue Throat , with his back against the bar , was slumped elbows supporting his massive frame .
cn26.4.0	ref	He leered at the stranger as the distance between them closed .
cn26.4.1	post-adv	As the distance between them closed he leered at the stranger .
cn26.5.0	ref	`` Since when did they allow beardless kids into the saloon bars of this town , boys '' ? He asked .
cn26.5.1	dat-np-np	`` Since when did they allow boys into the saloon bars of this town , to beardless kids '' ? He asked .
cn26.7.0	ref	He straightened up , alert now as the buffalo hunter came closer .
cn26.7.1	post-adv	As the buffalo hunter came closer he straightened up , alert now .
cn26.9.0	ref	`` I do n't aim to have minors breathing down my neck when I 'm a-drinking '' : The stranger ignored him .
cn26.9.1	post-adv	`` I do n't aim to have when I 'm a-drinking minors breathing down my neck '' : The stranger ignored him .
cn26.10.0	ref	He did n't stop till he was within three feet of Blue Throat and by that time the gang leader 's right hand was on the butt of his revolver .
cn26.10.1	post-adv	He till he was within three feet of Blue Throat did n't stop and by that time the gang leader 's right hand was on the butt of his revolver .
cn26.17.0	ref	Shall we teach him some '' ?
cn26.17.1	dat-np-np	Shall we teach some to him '' ?
cn26.18.0	ref	His gun was half drawn when he asked the question , but the weapon never left its holster .
cn26.18.1	post-adv	His gun when he asked the question was half drawn , but the weapon never left its holster .
cn26.19.0	ref	Tilghman 's clenched fist swept over in a terrific right cross and clipped the big gunfighter on the side of his chin .
cn26.19.1	post-adj2	Tilghman 's clenched fist swept in a terrific right cross over and clipped the big gunfighter on the side of his chin .
cn26.22.0	ref	A bullet gouged into the bar top an inch from Tilghman 's stomach as Blue Throat 's henchmen started shooting .
cn26.22.1	post-adv	As Blue Throat 's henchmen started shooting a bullet gouged into the bar top an inch from Tilghman 's stomach .
cn26.37.0	ref	In two minutes the body of Tilghman 's former comrade , who had been killed by Blue Throat in a gambling brawl the previous night , was carried into the town 's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial .
cn26.37.1	post-adj3	In two minutes the body of Tilghman 's former comrade , who had been killed in a gambling brawl by Blue Throat the previous night , was carried into the town 's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial .
cn26.37.2	post-adj3	In two minutes the body of Tilghman 's former comrade , who had been killed the previous night in a gambling brawl by Blue Throat , was carried into the town 's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial .
cn26.37.3	post-adj3	In two minutes the body of Tilghman 's former comrade , who had been killed by Blue Throat the previous night in a gambling brawl , was carried into the town 's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial .
cn26.37.4	post-adj3	In two minutes the body of Tilghman 's former comrade , who had been killed , the previous night , by Blue Throat in a gambling brawl , was carried into the town 's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial .
cn26.37.5	post-adj3	In two minutes the body of Tilghman 's former comrade , who had been killed in a gambling brawl the previous night , by Blue Throat , was carried into the town 's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial .
cn26.38.0	ref	Blue Throat , nursing an aching jaw and a collosal dose of wounded pride , rode out of town with the survivors of the fight .
cn26.38.1	post-adj2	Blue Throat , nursing an aching jaw and a collosal dose of wounded pride , rode with the survivors of the fight out of town .
cn26.39.0	ref	`` That critter will be back tomorrow '' , predicted George Rust , `` and he 'll bring fifty of his kind back with him .
cn26.39.1	post-adj2	`` That critter will be tomorrow back '' , predicted George Rust , `` and he 'll bring fifty of his kind back with him .
cn26.43.0	ref	The Reverend James Doran had scarcely completed Pat Conyers ' last rites on Boot Hill in the township of Petrie , when shots were heard in the distance .
cn26.43.1	post-adv	The Reverend James Doran , when shots were heard in the distance , had scarcely completed Pat Conyers ' last rites on Boot Hill in the township of Petrie .
cn26.44.0	ref	`` Amen '' , said the Reverend Doran , grabbing his rifle propped up against a tombstone , `` and now my brethren , it would seem that our presence is required elsewhere '' .
cn26.44.1	post-adj2	`` Amen '' , said the Reverend Doran , grabbing his rifle propped against a tombstone up , `` and now my brethren , it would seem that our presence is required elsewhere '' .
cn26.46.0	ref	Blue Throat , who had ruled the town with his six-shooter for the last six months , certainly had no intention of relinquishing his profitable dictatorship .
cn26.46.1	post-adj2	Blue Throat , who had ruled the town for the last six months with his six-shooter , certainly had no intention of relinquishing his profitable dictatorship .
cn26.48.0	ref	He rode in at the head of sixty trigger-happy and liquor-crazed desperadoes and took over a livery barn at the entrance to Main Street .
cn26.48.1	post-adj2	He rode at the head of sixty trigger-happy and liquor-crazed desperadoes in and took over a livery barn at the entrance to Main Street .
cn26.49.0	ref	The entire length of the street could be raked with rifle fire from this barn .
cn26.49.1	post-adj2	The entire length of the street could be raked from this barn with rifle fire .
cn26.52.0	ref	Several were firing into the barn when Billy Tilghman arrived .
cn26.52.1	post-adv	Several when Billy Tilghman arrived were firing into the barn .
cn26.54.0	ref	`` If Blue Throat has his way he 'll keep us all cooped up in here for days '' , he said .
cn26.54.1	quote	`` If Blue Throat has his way he 'll keep us all cooped up in here for days '' , said he .
cn26.54.2	pre-adv	`` He 'll keep us all cooped up in here for days if Blue Throat has his way '' , he said .
cn26.58.0	ref	`` I 'm gon na drop these into Blue Throat 's lap '' , he announced , `` and I 'd like every gun to be firing into that barn while I get near enough to toss 'em through the window '' .
cn26.58.1	post-adv	`` I 'm gon na drop these into Blue Throat 's lap '' , he announced , `` and I 'd like every gun to while I get near enough to toss 'em through the window be firing into that barn '' .
cn26.60.0	ref	Blue Throat 's men spotted him and a hail of bullets splintered the store fronts and board walk as he passed .
cn26.60.1	post-adv	Blue Throat 's men spotted him and as he passed a hail of bullets splintered the store fronts and board walk .
cn26.65.0	ref	Within seconds the big barn was blasted into smoking splinters , with every outlaw either dead or injured inside .
cn26.65.1	post-adv	Within seconds the big barn , with every outlaw either dead or injured inside , was blasted into smoking splinters .
cn26.67.0	ref	Though only slightly injured himself the big hoodlum never returned to those parts .
cn26.67.1	pre-adv	The big hoodlum never returned to those parts though only slightly injured himself .
cn26.68.0	ref	To Tilghman the incident was just one of a long list of hair-raising , smash-'em-down adventures on the side of the law which started in 1872 when he was only eighteen years old , and did not end till fifty years later when he was shot dead after warning a drunk to be quiet .
cn26.68.1	post-adv	To Tilghman the incident was just one of a long list of hair-raising , smash-'em-down adventures on the side of the law which when he was only eighteen years old started in 1872 , and did not end till fifty years later when he was shot dead after warning a drunk to be quiet .
cn26.73.0	ref	The deeds of countless western bandits and outlaws have been glorified almost to the point of hero-worship , but because Billy Tilghman remained strictly on the side of the law throughout his action-packed career , his achievements and the appalling risks he took while taming the West have remained almost unsung .
cn26.73.1	post-adv	The deeds of countless western bandits and outlaws have been glorified almost to the point of hero-worship , but because Billy Tilghman remained strictly on the side of the law throughout his action-packed career , his achievements and the appalling risks while taming the West he took have remained almost unsung .
cn26.73.2	pre-adv	The deeds of countless western bandits and outlaws have been glorified almost to the point of hero-worship , but his achievements and the appalling risks he took while taming the West have remained almost unsung , because Billy Tilghman remained strictly on the side of the law throughout his action-packed career .
cn26.75.0	ref	He came within an ace of being riddled with bullets during his long fight with the Doolin gang which terrorized Oklahoma in the 1890 's .
cn26.75.1	post-adj2	He came during his long fight with the Doolin gang which terrorized Oklahoma in the 1890 's within an ace of being riddled with bullets .
cn26.77.0	ref	Bill Doolin 's ambition , it appeared , was to carve out his name with bullets alongside those of Jesse James and Billy the Kid , and Bill Tilghman had sworn he would stop him .
cn26.77.1	post-adj2	Bill Doolin 's ambition , it appeared , was to carve out his name alongside those of Jesse James and Billy the Kid with bullets , and Bill Tilghman had sworn he would stop him .
cn26.82.0	ref	It was snowing hard when they got there and they saw no horses outside .
cn26.82.1	post-adv	It when they got there was snowing hard and they saw no horses outside .
cn26.86.0	ref	`` If I do n't come out within half an hour ride back to town and bring out a posse '' .
cn26.86.1	pre-adv	Ride back to town and bring out a posse `` if I do n't come out within half an hour '' .
cn26.86.2	post-adj2	`` If I do n't come within half an hour out ride back to town and bring out a posse '' .
cn26.99.0	ref	He walked right up to the fire as though blissfully unaware of the guns covering him .
cn26.99.1	post-adv	As though blissfully unaware of the guns covering him he walked right up to the fire .
cn26.109.0	ref	All that time rifle barrels were pointing unwaveringly at his head and body .
cn26.109.1	post-adj2	All that time rifle barrels were pointing at his head and body unwaveringly .
cn26.112.0	ref	He strolled back to the door , whistling softly , hands still clasped behind him .
cn26.112.1	post-adj2	He strolled to the door back , whistling softly , hands still clasped behind him .
cn26.114.0	ref	But he knew well enough that those guns would still be trained on his back as he walked towards the wagon .
cn26.114.1	post-adv	But he knew well enough that those guns would still as he walked towards the wagon be trained on his back .
cn26.115.0	ref	If he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going back with his deputy to the ranch he would be shot down instantly .
cn26.115.1	pre-adv	He would be shot down instantly if he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going back with his deputy to the ranch .
cn26.115.2	post-adj3	If he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going with his deputy back to the ranch he would be shot down instantly .
cn26.115.3	post-adj3	If he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going to the ranch with his deputy back he would be shot down instantly .
cn26.115.4	post-adj3	If he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going back to the ranch with his deputy he would be shot down instantly .
cn26.115.5	post-adj3	If he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going to the ranch back with his deputy he would be shot down instantly .
cn26.115.6	post-adj3	If he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going with his deputy to the ranch back he would be shot down instantly .
cn26.116.0	ref	Leisurely he climbed on to the wagon next to Neal Brown .
cn26.116.1	post-adj2	Leisurely he climbed next to Neal Brown on to the wagon .
cn26.118.0	ref	`` Just get out of here without it looking as though we 're in a hurry .
cn26.118.1	post-adj2	`` Just get without it looking as though we 're in a hurry out of here .
cn26.120.0	ref	Even as he spoke those words Billy Tilghman 's life hung on a thread .
cn26.120.1	pre-adv	Billy Tilghman 's life hung on a thread even as he spoke those words .
cn26.122.0	ref	`` You 'll stay right here '' , commanded Bill Doolin , covering Red with his rifle .
cn26.122.1	iquote	`` You 'll stay right here '' , Bill Doolin commanded , covering Red with his rifle .
cn26.125.0	ref	But the fighting marshal 's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came to a full and final stop one night in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets .
cn26.125.1	post-adj3	But the fighting marshal 's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came one night to a full and final stop in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets .
cn26.125.2	post-adj3	But the fighting marshal 's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets one night to a full and final stop .
cn26.125.3	post-adj3	But the fighting marshal 's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came to a full and final stop in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets one night .
cn26.125.4	post-adj3	But the fighting marshal 's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets to a full and final stop one night .
cn26.125.5	post-adj3	But the fighting marshal 's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came one night in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets to a full and final stop .
cn27.2.0	ref	This Woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; she would talk to him in a soothing voice about things his mother would have said were not nice and put her hands on him and kiss him passionately .
cn27.2.1	post-adj3	This Woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; she would talk in a soothing voice to him about things his mother would have said were not nice and put her hands on him and kiss him passionately .
cn27.2.2	post-adj3	This Woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; she would talk about things his mother would have said were not nice in a soothing voice to him and put her hands on him and kiss him passionately .
cn27.2.3	post-adj3	This Woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; she would talk to him about things his mother would have said were not nice in a soothing voice and put her hands on him and kiss him passionately .
cn27.2.4	post-adj3	This Woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; she would talk about things his mother would have said were not nice to him in a soothing voice and put her hands on him and kiss him passionately .
cn27.2.5	post-adj3	This Woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; she would talk in a soothing voice about things his mother would have said were not nice to him and put her hands on him and kiss him passionately .
cn27.3.0	ref	When she would do these things , he would turn blind for an instant and become sick at his stomach .
cn27.3.1	pre-adv	He would turn blind for an instant and become sick at his stomach , when she would do these things .
cn27.5.0	ref	Sometimes he did this three or four times a day , for this Woman was almost always with him .
cn27.5.1	dat-np-np	Sometimes he did three or four times a day to this , for this Woman was almost always with him .
cn27.5.2	post-adv	For this Woman was almost always with him , sometimes he did this three or four times a day .
cn27.8.0	ref	And so when Miss Langford came to teach at the one-room Chestnut school , where Jack was a pupil in the eighth grade , the Woman of Jack 's mind assumed the teacher 's face and figure .
cn27.8.1	pre-adv	And so the Woman of Jack 's mind assumed the teacher 's face and figure , when Miss Langford came to teach at the one-room Chestnut school , where Jack was a pupil in the eighth grade .
cn27.9.0	ref	He could not keep his eyes off her when at school ; when he went home at night , he took her with him in his mind , and she did the things the anonymous Woman used to do , and he did the thing afterwards each time as he used to do .
cn27.9.1	dat-np-np	He could not keep his eyes off her when at school ; when he went home at night , he took her with him in his mind , and she did the things the anonymous Woman used to do , and he did each time afterwards to the thing as he used to do .
cn27.9.2	post-adv	He when at school could not keep his eyes off her ; when he went home at night , he took her with him in his mind , and she did the things the anonymous Woman used to do , and he did the thing afterwards each time as he used to do .
cn27.9.3	post-adv	He could not keep his eyes off her when at school ; when he went home at night , he took her with him in his mind , and she did the things the anonymous Woman used to do , and as he used to do he did the thing afterwards each time .
cn27.9.4	pre-adv	He could not keep his eyes off her when at school ; he took her with him in his mind , when he went home at night , and she did the things the anonymous Woman used to do , and he did the thing afterwards each time as he used to do .
cn27.10.0	ref	When he awoke in the mornings , she was in his mind and he could hardly wait to get to school to be near her in the flesh .
cn27.10.1	pre-adv	She was in his mind , when he awoke in the mornings , and he could hardly wait to get to school to be near her in the flesh .
cn27.12.0	ref	Tall , blonde , blue-eyes , fair , buxom without being heavy , she cut a fine figure of budding womanhood as she swished among the pupils in her fresh , starched summer dress .
cn27.12.1	post-adv	As she swished among the pupils in her fresh , starched summer dress tall , blonde , blue-eyes , fair , buxom without being heavy , she cut a fine figure of budding womanhood .
cn27.12.2	post-adj2	Tall , blonde , blue-eyes , fair , buxom without being heavy , she cut a fine figure of budding womanhood as she swished in her fresh , starched summer dress among the pupils .
cn27.13.0	ref	Something was beginning to stir and come alive in her , too -LRB- it may have been there for a good while , since she was twenty now ; but if it had been , it had been smothered until now by fear -RRB- : you could tell it by the way she watched the older , bigger boys , like Jack .
cn27.13.1	post-adv	Something was beginning to stir and come alive in her , too -LRB- it may , since she was twenty now , have been there for a good while ; but if it had been , it had been smothered until now by fear -RRB- : you could tell it by the way she watched the older , bigger boys , like Jack .
cn27.13.2	pre-adv	Something was beginning to stir and come alive in her , too -LRB- it may have been there for a good while , since she was twenty now ; but it had been smothered until now by fear , if it had been -RRB- : you could tell it by the way she watched the older , bigger boys , like Jack .
cn27.14.0	ref	She would look at Jack , with that hidden something in her eyes , and Jack would see the Woman and become breathless and a little sick .
cn27.14.1	post-adj2	She would look with that hidden something in her eyes , at Jack , and Jack would see the Woman and become breathless and a little sick .
cn27.16.0	ref	The first two or three days they went home early .
cn27.16.1	post-adj2	The first two or three days they went early home .
cn27.18.0	ref	He hung around the schoolhouse , watching through a window from outside while Miss Langford straightened desks and put the room in order .
cn27.18.1	post-adv	He hung around the schoolhouse , while Miss Langford straightened desks and put the room in order watching through a window from outside .
cn27.21.0	ref	About that time Miss Langford straightened up and looked out the window directly at him , he thought , although probably she did n't even see him .
cn27.21.1	post-adv	About that time Miss Langford although probably she did n't even see him straightened up and looked out the window directly at him , he thought .
cn27.23.0	ref	He did n't look back and he ran until he was out of sight of the schoolhouse and out of breath ; then he slowed to a walk .
cn27.23.1	post-adv	He did n't look back and until he was out of sight of the schoolhouse and out of breath he ran ; then he slowed to a walk .
cn27.25.0	ref	`` I 'll get her yet '' , he muttered to himself .
cn27.25.1	quote	`` I 'll get her yet '' , muttered he to himself .
cn27.27.0	ref	That night he dreamed a dream violent with passion , in which he and the Woman , now the teacher , did everything except engage in the act -LRB- and this probably only because he had never engaged in the act in reality -RRB- , and when he awoke the next morning his heart was afire .
cn27.27.1	pre-adv	That night he dreamed a dream violent with passion , in which he and the Woman , now the teacher , did everything except engage in the act -LRB- and this probably only because he had never engaged in the act in reality -RRB- , and his heart was afire when he awoke the next morning .
cn27.28.0	ref	He ate litle that morning , and his mother became concerned , inasmuch as he usually ate heartily .
cn27.28.1	post-adv	He ate litle that morning , and , inasmuch as he usually ate heartily , his mother became concerned .
cn27.31.0	ref	`` No , I 'm not hungry '' , he said , pushing back the bacon and eggs .
cn27.31.1	quote	`` No , I 'm not hungry '' , said , pushing he back the bacon and eggs .
cn27.32.0	ref	Outside it was already hot at 7:30 A.M. , and it was getting hot in the kitchen .
cn27.32.1	post-adj2	Outside it was at 7:30 A.M. hot already , and it was getting hot in the kitchen .
cn27.38.0	ref	`` Do n't you play hard today then .
cn27.38.1	post-adj3	`` Do n't you play today hard then .
cn27.38.2	post-adj3	`` Do n't you play then today hard .
cn27.38.3	post-adj3	`` Do n't you play hard then today .
cn27.38.4	post-adj3	`` Do n't you play then hard today .
cn27.38.5	post-adj3	`` Do n't you play today then hard .
cn27.39.0	ref	And if you get sick , ask the teacher to let you come home early .
cn27.39.1	pre-adv	And ask the teacher to let you come home early , if you get sick .
cn27.39.2	post-adj2	And if you get sick , ask the teacher to let you come early home .
cn27.41.0	ref	`` OK. , I wo n't play hard '' , he promised .
cn27.41.1	quote	`` OK. , I wo n't play hard '' , promised he .
cn27.46.0	ref	`` You know what I done last night '' ? Charles said as they picked their way over the rocky road which led up the hill away from the Dixie Highway , through a corn field and a patch of woods to the school .
cn27.46.1	post-adv	As they picked their way over the rocky road which led up the hill away from the Dixie Highway , through a corn field and a patch of woods to the school `` you know what I done last night '' ? Charles said .
cn27.47.0	ref	Jack knew of course that the tale to be unfolded would involve a girl and probably be dirty , because girls were Charles ' only apparent interest .
cn27.47.1	post-adv	Because girls were Charles ' only apparent interest , Jack knew of course that the tale to be unfolded would involve a girl and probably be dirty .
cn27.48.0	ref	But Jack always derived vicarious sensual thrills from Charles ' revelations -LRB- even when he suspected his friend of exaggeration or invention -RRB- , so he usually invited them , as he did now .
cn27.48.1	post-adv	-LRB- Even when he suspected his friend of exaggeration or invention -RRB- but Jack always derived vicarious sensual thrills from Charles ' revelations , so he usually invited them , as he did now .
cn27.48.2	post-adv	But Jack always derived vicarious sensual thrills from Charles ' revelations -LRB- even when he suspected his friend of exaggeration or invention -RRB- , so , as he did now , he usually invited them .
cn27.51.0	ref	`` I got Margaret Rider in one of them old box cars down there by the quarry '' .
cn27.51.1	post-adj3	`` I got Margaret Rider down there in one of them old box cars by the quarry '' .
cn27.51.2	post-adj3	`` I got Margaret Rider by the quarry down there in one of them old box cars '' .
cn27.51.3	post-adj3	`` I got Margaret Rider in one of them old box cars by the quarry down there '' .
cn27.51.4	post-adj3	`` I got Margaret Rider , by the quarry , in one of them old box cars down there '' .
cn27.51.5	post-adj3	`` I got Margaret Rider down there by the quarry in one of them old box cars '' .
cn27.54.0	ref	`` Hell you say '' ? He said , lapsing into the profanity he often used when away from his parents and especially when he was with Charles .
cn27.54.1	post-adv	`` Hell you say '' ? He said , lapsing into the profanity when away from his parents and especially when he was with Charles he often used .
cn27.61.0	ref	She 's been hangin ' around me a lot here lately , and I figgered I might as well 's try it .
cn27.61.1	post-adj3	She 's been hangin ' here a lot around me lately , and I figgered I might as well 's try it .
cn27.61.2	post-adj3	She 's been hangin ' lately a lot here around me , and I figgered I might as well 's try it .
cn27.61.3	post-adj3	She 's been hangin ' around me a lot lately here , and I figgered I might as well 's try it .
cn27.61.4	post-adj3	She 's been hangin ' lately around me a lot here , and I figgered I might as well 's try it .
cn27.61.5	post-adj3	She 's been hangin a lot here lately ' around me , and I figgered I might as well 's try it .
cn27.65.0	ref	If you 'd get out of your back yard once in a while you might even get her your ownself '' .
cn27.65.1	dat-np-np	If you 'd get out of your back yard once in a while you might even get your ownself to her '' .
cn27.65.2	pre-adv	You might even get her your ownself if you 'd get out of your back yard once in a while '' .
cn27.65.3	post-adj2	If you 'd get once in a while out of your back yard you might even get her your ownself '' .
cn27.66.0	ref	`` I might try it one of these days '' , Jack said wonderingly , thinking of Miss Langford .
cn27.66.1	quote	`` I might try it one of these days '' , said wonderingly , thinking Jack of Miss Langford .
cn27.67.0	ref	When they reached the school , a gang of boys and girls were already there playing `` crack the whip '' in front of the schoolhouse .
cn27.67.1	pre-adv	A gang of boys and girls were already there playing `` crack the whip '' in front of the schoolhouse , when they reached the school .
cn27.67.2	post-adj2	When they reached the school , a gang of boys and girls were there already playing `` crack the whip '' in front of the schoolhouse .
cn27.68.0	ref	Miss Langford , in a fresh white dress and low-heeled white sandals , without socks , was out there with them , trying to get them inside .
cn27.68.1	post-adj2	Miss Langford , in a fresh white dress and low-heeled white sandals , without socks , was with them out there , trying to get them inside .
cn27.71.0	ref	`` Oh , come on Miss Langford , play with us just onct '' , one of the little girls begged , smiling wistfully .
cn27.71.1	post-adj2	`` Oh , come on Miss Langford , play just onct with us '' , one of the little girls begged , smiling wistfully .
cn27.74.0	ref	Come inside now '' .
cn27.74.1	post-adj2	Come now inside '' .
cn27.78.0	ref	Occasionally he would look across the aisle at Margaret , fourteen and demure in a fresh green organdy dress , sitting in the sixth-grade row , and he could hardly believe she would do what Charles had said she did .
cn27.78.1	post-adj2	Occasionally he would look at Margaret , fourteen and demure in a fresh green organdy dress , sitting in the sixth-grade row across the aisle , and he could hardly believe she would do what Charles had said she did .
cn27.79.0	ref	At noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , Jack stayed close to the schoolhouse while all the other big boys , except Charles , went off out the road to play ball .
cn27.79.1	post-adv	While all the other big boys , except Charles , went off out the road to play ball at noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , Jack stayed close to the schoolhouse .
cn27.80.0	ref	`` Why ai n't you playin ' ball '' ? He asked Charles suspiciously as they sat in the well-house shade , watching the girls congregate in front of the schoolhouse .
cn27.80.1	post-adv	As they sat in the well-house shade , watching the girls congregate in front of the schoolhouse `` why ai n't you playin ' ball '' ? He asked Charles suspiciously .
cn27.82.0	ref	`` I 'd druther stay here and watch the girls '' , Charles grinned .
cn27.82.1	quote	`` I 'd druther stay here and watch the girls '' , grinned Charles .
cn27.86.0	ref	When she appeared , two or three of the little girls jumped up and down , yelling , `` Goody , goody '' .
cn27.86.1	pre-adv	Two or three of the little girls jumped up and down , yelling , `` Goody , goody '' , when she appeared .
cn27.90.0	ref	They played crack the whip a few minutes without mishap .
cn27.90.1	post-adj2	They played crack the whip without mishap a few minutes .
cn27.91.0	ref	Then when Miss Langford was on the end of the line of girls , Jack , in the middle of the line , gave an extra hard pull and the young teacher sprawled backwards , sitting down hard , her dress flying over her head .
cn27.91.1	pre-adv	Then Jack , in the middle of the line , gave an extra hard pull , when Miss Langford was on the end of the line of girls , and the young teacher sprawled backwards , sitting down hard , her dress flying over her head .
cn27.92.0	ref	While she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again , Jack ran over , offered her his hand and said , `` Gosh , I 'm sorry , Miss Langford .
cn27.92.1	dat-np-np	While she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again , Jack ran over , offered his hand to her and said , `` Gosh , I 'm sorry , Miss Langford .
cn27.92.2	pre-adv	Jack ran over , offered her his hand and said , `` Gosh , I 'm sorry , Miss Langford , while she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again .
cn27.94.0	ref	`` That 's all right '' , she said , tossing her head back to get the hair out of her eyes .
cn27.94.1	quote	`` That 's all right '' , said , tossing she her head back to get the hair out of her eyes .
cn27.96.0	ref	With one hand she held her skirt down while she took Jack 's extended hand with the other .
cn27.96.1	post-adv	While she took Jack 's extended hand with the other with one hand she held her skirt down .
cn27.97.0	ref	When her hand touched his , fire went through Jack and he felt weak , but he managed somehow to get her on her feet .
cn27.97.1	pre-adv	Fire went through Jack , when her hand touched his , and he felt weak , but he managed somehow to get her on her feet .
cn27.98.0	ref	He thought she gave him that look with the hidden something in it as he let her hand go .
cn27.98.1	dat-np-np	He thought she gave that look with the hidden something in it to him as he let her hand go .
cn27.98.2	post-adv	He thought as he let her hand go she gave him that look with the hidden something in it .
cn27.99.0	ref	`` Thank you '' , she said , dusting herself off .
cn27.99.1	quote	`` Thank you '' , said , dusting she herself off .
cn27.100.0	ref	`` Will you play with us again , Miss Langford '' ? One of the little girls said .
cn27.100.1	post-adj2	`` Will you play again with us , Miss Langford '' ? One of the little girls said .
cn27.104.0	ref	`` I do n't believe I 'll play any more neither '' .
cn27.104.1	post-adj2	`` I do n't believe I 'll play neither any more '' .
cn27.106.0	ref	Jack walked off alone out the road in the searing midday sun , past Robert Allen 's three-room , tarpapered house , toward the field where the other boys were playing ball , thinking of what he would do in order to make Miss Langford have him stay in after school -- because this was the day he had decided when he thought he saw the look in her eyes .
cn27.106.1	post-adv	Jack walked off alone out the road in the searing midday sun , past Robert Allen 's three-room , tarpapered house , toward the field where the other boys were playing ball , thinking of what he in order to make Miss Langford have him stay in after school would do -- because this was the day he had decided when he thought he saw the look in her eyes .
cn27.106.2	post-adv	Jack walked off alone out the road in the searing midday sun , past Robert Allen 's three-room , tarpapered house , toward the field where the other boys were playing ball -- because this was the day he had decided when he thought he saw the look in her eyes -- thinking of what he would do in order to make Miss Langford have him stay in after school .
cn27.107.0	ref	When he came back to the schoolhouse , his mind was made up .
cn27.107.1	pre-adv	His mind was made up , when he came back to the schoolhouse .
cn27.107.2	post-adj2	When he came to the schoolhouse back , his mind was made up .
cn27.108.0	ref	He simply would not work his arithmetic problems when the teacher held his class .
cn27.108.1	post-adv	He simply when the teacher held his class would not work his arithmetic problems .
cn27.109.0	ref	That should do it , he thought , because Miss Langford had said she was going to be strict about school work .
cn27.109.1	post-adv	That because Miss Langford had said she was going to be strict about school work should do it , he thought .
cn27.112.0	ref	`` But I 've got to take a chance on it '' , he told himself desperately .
cn27.112.1	quote	`` But I 've got to take a chance on it '' , told he himself desperately .
cn27.114.0	ref	`` All right , if you ca n't do your arithmetic during school hours you can do it after school is out '' , Miss Langford said firmly , not smiling .
cn27.114.1	post-adv	`` All right , if you ca n't do your arithmetic during school hours you after school is out can do it '' , Miss Langford said firmly , not smiling .
cn27.114.2	quote	`` All right , if you ca n't do your arithmetic during school hours you can do it after school is out '' , said Miss Langford firmly , not smiling .
cn27.114.3	pre-adv	`` All right you can do it after school is out , if you ca n't do your arithmetic during school hours '' , Miss Langford said firmly , not smiling .
cn27.115.0	ref	`` You will stay here thirty minutes after the others go home this afternoon and work your problems '' .
cn27.115.1	post-adv	`` You will after the others go home this afternoon stay here thirty minutes and work your problems '' .
cn27.115.2	post-adj2	`` You will stay thirty minutes here after the others go home this afternoon and work your problems '' .
cn27.116.0	ref	And so when the others stampeded out that afternoon Jack remained docilely in his seat near a window , looking out in what he hoped was a pitiable manner , while the other kids laughed and yelled in at him and made faces as they dispersed , going home .
cn27.116.1	post-adv	While the other kids laughed and yelled in at him and made faces as they dispersed , going home , and so when the others stampeded out that afternoon Jack remained docilely in his seat near a window , looking out in what he hoped was a pitiable manner .
cn27.116.2	post-adv	And so when the others stampeded out that afternoon Jack remained docilely in his seat near a window , looking out in what he hoped was a pitiable manner , while as they dispersed , going home the other kids laughed and yelled in at him and made faces .
cn27.116.3	pre-adv	And so Jack remained docilely in his seat near a window , looking out in what he hoped was a pitiable manner , while the other kids laughed and yelled in at him and made faces as they dispersed , going home when the others stampeded out that afternoon .
cn27.116.4	post-adj2	And so when the others stampeded that afternoon out Jack remained docilely in his seat near a window , looking out in what he hoped was a pitiable manner , while the other kids laughed and yelled in at him and made faces as they dispersed , going home .
cn28.2.0	ref	She munched little ginger cakes called mulatto 's belly and kept her green , somewhat hypnotic eyes fixed on a light-colored male who was prancing wildly with a 5-foot king snake wrapped around his bronze neck .
cn28.2.1	post-adv	She munched little ginger cakes called mulatto 's belly and kept her green , somewhat hypnotic eyes fixed on a light-colored male who with a 5-foot king snake wrapped around his bronze neck was prancing wildly .
cn28.9.0	ref	The slaves ran gaily to the center of Congo Square and gathered around a sweaty youth they called Johnny No-Name .
cn28.9.1	post-adj2	The slaves ran to the center of Congo Square gaily and gathered around a sweaty youth they called Johnny No-Name .
cn28.11.0	ref	He showed his gleaming tusks of teeth and bellowed incoherently , his brass earrings jangling discordantly as he shook and trembled in ecstasy .
cn28.11.1	post-adv	He showed his gleaming tusks of teeth and bellowed incoherently , as he shook and trembled in ecstasy his brass earrings jangling discordantly .
cn28.12.0	ref	The drummer flogged the gourd with frantic intensity as the dancers began the calinda , a sensual gyration which had long been a favorite of voodoo practitioners and their disciples in the Louisiana slave compounds .
cn28.12.1	post-adv	As the dancers began the calinda , a sensual gyration which had long been a favorite of voodoo practitioners and their disciples in the Louisiana slave compounds the drummer flogged the gourd with frantic intensity .
cn28.14.0	ref	The white girl with the penetrating green eyes sipped the lemonade handed to her by a handsome man of about 30 , who had coppery skin and beetling eyebrows .
cn28.14.1	post-adj2	The white girl with the penetrating green eyes sipped the lemonade handed by a handsome man of about 30 , who had coppery skin and beetling eyebrows to her .
cn28.15.0	ref	He was possessive in his manner and , though a slave , obviously was educated after a fashion and imitated the manners of his owners .
cn28.15.1	post-adv	He , though a slave , was possessive in his manner and , obviously was educated after a fashion and imitated the manners of his owners .
cn28.16.0	ref	He proudly wore the blue livery of her house , for the girl was Madame Delphine Lalaurie , wife of the prominent surgeon , Dr. Louis Lalaurie , who bore one of the South 's oldest and most cherished names .
cn28.16.1	post-adv	For the girl was Madame Delphine Lalaurie , wife of the prominent surgeon , Dr. Louis Lalaurie , who bore one of the South 's oldest and most cherished names , he proudly wore the blue livery of her house .
cn28.19.0	ref	Although New Orleans was not to learn of it for a spell , she also was a sadist , a nymphomaniac and unobtrusively mad -- the perpetrator of some of the worst crimes against humanity ever committed on American soil .
cn28.19.1	pre-adv	She also was a sadist , a nymphomaniac and unobtrusively mad -- the perpetrator of some of the worst crimes against humanity ever committed on American soil , although New Orleans was not to learn of it for a spell .
cn28.20.0	ref	Madame Lalaurie gestured with her riding crop toward the 20-year-old youth who was stomping and writhing with the king snake still draped over his bare shoulders .
cn28.20.1	post-adj2	Madame Lalaurie gestured toward the 20-year-old youth who was stomping and writhing with the king snake still draped over his bare shoulders with her riding crop .
cn28.24.0	ref	Shy , actually , he avoided feminine overtures and seemed truly ignorant of the girls ' desires when they sought to make liaisons with him in the open fields , in carriages and in boathouses .
cn28.24.1	post-adv	Shy , actually , he when they sought to make liaisons with him in the open fields , in carriages and in boathouses avoided feminine overtures and seemed truly ignorant of the girls ' desires .
cn28.25.0	ref	This young slave was therefore quite unprepared when Delphine Lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near .
cn28.25.1	post-adv	When Delphine Lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near this young slave was therefore quite unprepared .
cn28.38.0	ref	The woman seemed utterly unafraid of the snake which coiled on the floor in a torpor .
cn28.38.1	post-adj2	The woman seemed utterly unafraid of the snake which coiled in a torpor on the floor .
cn28.39.0	ref	Once inside the luxuriosly-upholstered landau , she drew the curtains and proceeded to give the startled youth the kind of physical examination usually reserved for army inductees .
cn28.39.1	dat-np-np	Once inside the luxuriosly-upholstered landau , she drew the curtains and proceeded to give the kind of physical examination usually reserved for army inductees to the startled youth .
cn28.39.2	pre-adv	She drew the curtains and proceeded to give the startled youth the kind of physical examination usually reserved for army inductees , once inside the luxuriosly-upholstered landau .
cn28.43.0	ref	I want you to find Monsieur Prieur at once and give him this money for the boy 's purchase .
cn28.43.1	dat-np-np	I want you to find Monsieur Prieur at once and give this money to him for the boy 's purchase .
cn28.45.0	ref	If the old fool argues about the price , tell him I shall order my husband not to treat him as a patient any longer .
cn28.45.1	pre-adv	Tell him I shall order my husband not to treat him as a patient any longer , if the old fool argues about the price .
cn28.49.0	ref	Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought in chains years before from his native Sierra Leone , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
cn28.49.1	post-adj3	Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought years before in chains from his native Sierra Leone , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
cn28.49.2	post-adj3	Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought from his native Sierra Leone years before in chains , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
cn28.49.3	post-adj3	Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought in chains from his native Sierra Leone years before , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
cn28.49.4	post-adj3	Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought from his native Sierra Leone in chains years before , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
cn28.49.5	post-adj3	Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought years before from his native Sierra Leone in chains , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
cn28.54.0	ref	It will rip and shred easily for Madame '' .
cn28.54.1	post-adj2	It will rip and shred for Madame easily '' .
cn28.57.0	ref	The tall coachman walked off briskly in search of Alexander Prieur .
cn28.57.1	post-adj3	The tall coachman walked briskly off in search of Alexander Prieur .
cn28.57.2	post-adj3	The tall coachman walked in search of Alexander Prieur briskly off .
cn28.57.3	post-adj3	The tall coachman walked off in search of Alexander Prieur briskly .
cn28.57.4	post-adj3	The tall coachman walked in search of Alexander Prieur off briskly .
cn28.57.5	post-adj3	The tall coachman walked briskly in search of Alexander Prieur off .
cn28.59.0	ref	Dr. Louis Lalaurie stood on the veranda at the head of the driveway and watched his carriage as it approached the pillared mansion .
cn28.59.1	post-adv	Dr. Louis Lalaurie as it approached the pillared mansion stood on the veranda at the head of the driveway and watched his carriage .
cn28.60.0	ref	Dandy , curiosity overcoming his apprehensions , peered out at the doctor from the window of the vehicle .
cn28.60.1	post-adj2	Dandy , curiosity overcoming his apprehensions , peered from the window of the vehicle out at the doctor .
cn28.65.0	ref	Really , you are most indiscreet to drive him here yourself '' , he said , frowning with displeasure .
cn28.65.1	quote	Really , you are most indiscreet to drive him here yourself '' , said , frowning he with displeasure .
cn28.70.0	ref	He deserves a better life than just rotting away on the Prieur plantation '' .
cn28.70.1	post-adj2	He deserves a better life than just rotting on the Prieur plantation away '' .
cn28.73.0	ref	The physician led the horses to the stable after a cursory glance at the cringing slave .
cn28.73.1	post-adj2	The physician led the horses after a cursory glance at the cringing slave to the stable .
cn28.74.0	ref	Had Dandy been older or wiser , instinct might have warned him that he would be well advised to flee from the Lalauries ' tender care if he valued his life .
cn28.74.1	post-adv	Had Dandy been older or wiser , instinct might have warned him that he would if he valued his life be well advised to flee from the Lalauries ' tender care .
cn28.74.2	pre-adv	Instinct might have warned him that he would be well advised to flee from the Lalauries ' tender care if he valued his life , had Dandy been older or wiser .
cn28.79.0	ref	Airless and dingy though it was , the attic represented luxury to a slave who had led a wretched life with six brothers and sisters and assorted relatives in a shanty at Bayou St. John .
cn28.79.1	pre-adv	The attic represented luxury to a slave who had led a wretched life with six brothers and sisters and assorted relatives in a shanty at Bayou St. John , airless and dingy though it was .
cn28.80.0	ref	He bounced exuberantly on the sagging bed and was even more delighted when Madame Lalaurie -- after closing the door -- showed the slave that the bed was designed for something other than slumber .
cn28.80.1	post-adv	He when Madame Lalaurie -- after closing the door -- showed the slave that the bed was designed for something other than slumber bounced exuberantly on the sagging bed and was even more delighted .
cn28.80.2	post-adj2	He bounced on the sagging bed exuberantly and was even more delighted when Madame Lalaurie -- after closing the door -- showed the slave that the bed was designed for something other than slumber .
cn28.81.0	ref	It was just as well that the ignorant Dandy enjoyed himself to the hilt that first evening , for the room was to become his prison cell .
cn28.81.1	post-adv	For the room was to become his prison cell , it was just as well that the ignorant Dandy enjoyed himself to the hilt that first evening .
cn28.82.0	ref	When he finally left the sinister mansion on Perdido Street , he was carried out in a coroner 's basket .
cn28.82.1	pre-adv	He was carried out in a coroner 's basket , when he finally left the sinister mansion on Perdido Street .
cn28.82.2	post-adj2	When he finally left the sinister mansion on Perdido Street , he was carried in a coroner 's basket out .
cn28.84.0	ref	A stringed orchestra played softly behind the potted palms , and Delphine circulated graciously among her guests , chatting airily of the forthcoming races , the latest fashions from Paris , and Louisiana politics .
cn28.84.1	post-adj2	A stringed orchestra played behind the potted palms softly , and Delphine circulated graciously among her guests , chatting airily of the forthcoming races , the latest fashions from Paris , and Louisiana politics .
cn28.85.0	ref	Suddenly there was a commotion upstairs , a despairing boyish shriek , and the strains of the waltz faltered and died as the musicians and guests gaped at an apparition descending the marble staircase .
cn28.85.1	post-adv	Suddenly there was a commotion upstairs , a despairing boyish shriek , and as the musicians and guests gaped at an apparition descending the marble staircase the strains of the waltz faltered and died .
cn28.86.0	ref	It was Dandy Brandon , clad only in a bloody loincloth , emaciated and quaking as if the devil were breathing hard on him .
cn28.86.1	post-adv	It was Dandy Brandon , as if the devil were breathing hard on him clad only in a bloody loincloth , emaciated and quaking .
cn28.95.0	ref	Guests stared with horror at Madame Lalaurie and made speedy departures .
cn28.95.1	post-adj2	Guests stared at Madame Lalaurie with horror and made speedy departures .
cn28.96.0	ref	Delphine stood like stone , her eyes alive with hate as she looked down at the sheeted corpse .
cn28.96.1	post-adv	As she looked down at the sheeted corpse Delphine stood like stone , her eyes alive with hate .
cn28.99.0	ref	It was our hope to educate him and to give him his freedom when the right time came , for he was a bright and friendly youth who seemed worthy of our interest .
cn28.99.1	dat-np-np	It was our hope to educate him and to give his freedom to him when the right time came , for he was a bright and friendly youth who seemed worthy of our interest .
cn28.99.2	post-adv	It was our hope to educate him and when the right time came to give him his freedom , for he was a bright and friendly youth who seemed worthy of our interest .
cn28.99.3	post-adv	For he was a bright and friendly youth who seemed worthy of our interest , it was our hope to educate him and to give him his freedom when the right time came .
cn28.100.0	ref	After I paid Monsieur Prieur for Dandy , I brought him home , but he was ill at ease and ran away the same night .
cn28.100.1	pre-adv	I brought him home , after I paid Monsieur Prieur for Dandy , but he was ill at ease and ran away the same night .
cn28.103.0	ref	She daubed at her swimming eyes with a lacy handkerchief and said with obvious emotion : `` That poor boy !
cn28.103.1	post-adj2	She daubed with a lacy handkerchief at her swimming eyes and said with obvious emotion : `` That poor boy !
cn28.104.0	ref	He must have fallen in with evil companions , for he was a simple youth and quite trusting and inexperienced .
cn28.104.1	post-adv	He must , for he was a simple youth and quite trusting and inexperienced , have fallen in with evil companions .
cn28.107.0	ref	Though the slave 's dying words about the woman troubled the coroner 's panel , Dandy 's accusation was adjudged an aberration by the jury and disregarded .
cn28.107.1	pre-adv	Dandy 's accusation was adjudged an aberration by the jury and disregarded , though the slave 's dying words about the woman troubled the coroner 's panel .
cn28.109.0	ref	Moreover , runaway slaves frequently got into serious trouble in New Orleans ' dives .
cn28.109.1	post-adj2	Moreover , runaway slaves frequently got in New Orleans ' dives into serious trouble .
cn28.110.0	ref	So the verdict was `` death at the hands of a person or persons unknown '' , and the elite of the city , accepting Delphine 's testimony , welcomed her and the doctor back into the fold .
cn28.110.1	post-adj2	So the verdict was `` death at the hands of a person or persons unknown '' , and the elite of the city , accepting Delphine 's testimony , welcomed her and the doctor into the fold back .
cn28.112.0	ref	The excitement over Brandon 's bizarre death abated and Madame Lalaurie 's stock soared when she resumed her self-imposed chores of visiting the poor and bringing cakes and comfort to destitute patients in the county hospital .
cn28.112.1	post-adv	The excitement over Brandon 's bizarre death abated and when she resumed her self-imposed chores of visiting the poor and bringing cakes and comfort to destitute patients in the county hospital Madame Lalaurie 's stock soared .
cn28.112.2	dat-np-pp	The excitement over Brandon 's bizarre death abated and Madame Lalaurie 's stock soared when she resumed her self-imposed chores of visiting the poor and bringing destitute patients in the county hospital cakes and comfort .
cn28.113.0	ref	Then , on July 2 , there occurred another incident which set tongues to wagging at a furious clip .
cn28.113.1	pre-adj2	On July 2 , then , there occurred another incident which set tongues to wagging at a furious clip .
cn28.114.0	ref	Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance out of her parlor window at dusk one evening and beheld an amazing sight .
cn28.114.1	post-adj3	Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance at dusk out of her parlor window one evening and beheld an amazing sight .
cn28.114.2	post-adj3	Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance one evening at dusk out of her parlor window and beheld an amazing sight .
cn28.114.3	post-adj3	Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance out of her parlor window one evening at dusk and beheld an amazing sight .
cn28.114.4	post-adj3	Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance , one evening , out of her parlor window at dusk and beheld an amazing sight .
cn28.114.5	post-adj3	Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance at dusk one evening , out of her parlor window , and beheld an amazing sight .
cn28.118.0	ref	The bleeding girl was tiring fast ; the coachman and Delphine were gaining on her as she raced down Perdido Street .
cn28.118.1	post-adv	The bleeding girl was tiring fast ; the coachman and Delphine as she raced down Perdido Street were gaining on her .
cn28.119.0	ref	The fugitive cried out in an oddly sibilant voice : `` Help me , somebody !
cn28.119.1	post-adj2	The fugitive cried in an oddly sibilant voice out : `` Help me , somebody !
cn29.2.0	ref	Since then , and since the pure grain had gotten him divorced from every decent -- and even indecent -- group from Greenwich Village to the Embarcadero , he had become a sucker-rolling freight-jumper .
cn29.2.1	post-adj2	Since then , and since the pure grain had gotten him divorced from Greenwich Village to the Embarcadero from every decent -- and even indecent -- group , he had become a sucker-rolling freight-jumper .
cn29.3.0	ref	`` There ai n't nothin ' faster , or lonelier , or more direct than a cannonball freight when you wan- na go someplace '' , Feathertop would say .
cn29.3.1	post-adv	`` When you wan- na go someplace there ai n't nothin ' faster , or lonelier , or more direct than a cannonball freight '' , Feathertop would say .
cn29.3.2	quote	`` There ai n't nothin ' faster , or lonelier , or more direct than a cannonball freight when you wan- na go someplace '' , would say Feathertop .
cn29.6.0	ref	He had been conning the freights for a long , long time now .
cn29.6.1	post-adj2	He had been conning the freights now for a long , long time .
cn29.10.0	ref	He was -- as he told himself in the vernacular of a trade no longer his own -- riding the dark train out .
cn29.10.1	post-adv	As he told himself in the vernacular of a trade no longer his own -- he was riding the dark train out .
cn29.15.0	ref	He was pressed far back into the corner of the car on his hay sacks , the rattling and tinning of the wheels on the rails almost covering the sound of his ocarina .
cn29.15.1	post-adj2	He was pressed on his hay sacks far back into the corner of the car , the rattling and tinning of the wheels on the rails almost covering the sound of his ocarina .
cn29.16.0	ref	He held his elbows away from his body , and the little sweet potato trilled neatly and sweetly as he tickled its tune-belly .
cn29.16.1	post-adv	He held his elbows away from his body , and as he tickled its tune-belly the little sweet potato trilled neatly and sweetly .
cn29.19.0	ref	She pulled her legs up under her , to rise , her full peasant skirt drawing up her thighs , and Feathertop 's music pfffted away .
cn29.19.1	post-adj2	She pulled her legs under her up , to rise , her full peasant skirt drawing up her thighs , and Feathertop 's music pfffted away .
cn29.20.0	ref	`` Now that is a very nice , a very nice '' , he murmured to himself , back in his corner .
cn29.20.1	quote	`` Now that is a very nice , a very nice '' , murmured he to himself , back in his corner .
cn29.20.2	post-adj2	`` Now that is a very nice , a very nice '' , he murmured back in his corner , to himself .
cn29.27.0	ref	Then the boy straight-armed himself up , twisting at the last moment so he landed sitting .
cn29.27.1	post-adv	Then the boy straight-armed himself up , so he landed sitting twisting at the last moment .
cn29.30.0	ref	`` We made it , Cappy '' , the chick said .
cn29.30.1	dat-np-np	`` We made Cappy , to it '' , the chick said .
cn29.30.2	quote	`` We made it , Cappy '' , said the chick .
cn29.42.0	ref	The boy yanked her back hard , tugging her off her feet , and gathered her into the crook of his arm .
cn29.42.1	post-adj2	The boy yanked her hard back , tugging her off her feet , and gathered her into the crook of his arm .
cn29.50.0	ref	`` We -- we eloped '' , Cappy said .
cn29.50.1	quote	`` We -- we eloped '' , said Cappy .
cn29.60.0	ref	He liked to savor his meat before he tasted it .
cn29.60.1	post-adv	He liked before he tasted it to savor his meat .
cn29.63.0	ref	He grinned at them wolfishly .
cn29.63.1	post-adj2	He grinned wolfishly at them .
cn29.64.0	ref	`` That ai n't your name , Mister '' , the boy accused .
cn29.64.1	quote	`` That ai n't your name , Mister '' , accused the boy .
cn29.71.0	ref	Feathertop watched the smooth scissoring of her slim , trim legs as she walked to the bags , and tucked them beneath her , smoothing the skirt out in a wide circle .
cn29.71.1	post-adv	As she walked to the bags , and tucked them beneath her , smoothing the skirt out in a wide circle Feathertop watched the smooth scissoring of her slim , trim legs .
cn29.72.0	ref	He cleared his throat ; it had been a long , hot while since he 'd seen anything as nice as this within grabbin ' distance .
cn29.72.1	post-adv	He cleared his throat ; it since he 'd seen anything as nice as this within grabbin ' distance had been a long , hot while .
cn29.79.0	ref	I been riding train for a ways now '' .
cn29.79.1	post-adj2	I been riding train now for a ways '' .
cn29.81.0	ref	After a while , Kitty murmured something to Cappy , and he held her close , answering , `` We 'll just have to wait till we pull into Philly , honey '' .
cn29.81.1	post-adv	After a while , Kitty murmured something to Cappy , and he held her close , answering , `` We 'll just have till we pull into Philly to wait , honey '' .
cn29.89.0	ref	Joviality suffused Feathertop Ernie Cargill 's voice as he reached behind him , pulling out a battered carpet bag , with leather handles .
cn29.89.1	post-adv	As he reached behind him , pulling out a battered carpet bag , with leather handles joviality suffused Feathertop Ernie Cargill 's voice .
cn29.102.0	ref	He reached once more into the carpet bag and brought up a package of wieners .
cn29.102.1	post-adj2	He reached into the carpet bag once more and brought up a package of wieners .
cn29.105.0	ref	He ripped down the cellophane carefully , and laid three dogs on the tin foil .
cn29.105.1	post-adj2	He ripped carefully the cellophane down , and laid three dogs on the tin foil .
cn29.110.0	ref	When they had licked the last of the wieners ' taste from their fingers , they settled back , and Cappy offered Ernie a cigarette .
cn29.110.1	dat-np-np	When they had licked the last of the wieners ' taste from their fingers , they settled back , and Cappy offered a cigarette to Ernie .
cn29.110.2	pre-adv	They settled back , when they had licked the last of the wieners ' taste from their fingers , and Cappy offered Ernie a cigarette .
cn29.119.0	ref	She looked down at her hands , too .
cn29.119.1	post-adj2	She looked too , down at her hands .
cn29.122.0	ref	Cappy 's head came around sharply .
cn29.122.1	post-adj2	Cappy 's head came sharply around .
cn29.131.0	ref	You never heard nothin ' like it : Kitty 's gon na go have an abortion , and Kitty 's gon na go away to a convent , and Kitty 's this and Kitty 's that like he was nuts or somethin ' , y' know '' ?
cn29.131.1	post-adj2	You never heard nothin ' like it : Kitty 's gon na go have an abortion , and Kitty 's gon na go to a convent away , and Kitty 's this and Kitty 's that like he was nuts or somethin ' , y' know '' ?
cn29.147.0	ref	From the man who had leaped in from the high bank outside , as the train had slowed on the grade .
cn29.147.1	post-adv	From the man who , as the train had slowed on the grade , had leaped in from the high bank outside .
cn29.147.2	post-adj2	From the man who had leaped from the high bank outside in , as the train had slowed on the grade .
cn29.152.0	ref	`` You gon na give me a drink , fella '' ?
cn29.152.1	dat-np-np	`` You gon na give a drink to me , fella '' ?
cn29.164.0	ref	`` We 're going to Philadelphia '' , Kitty said , pulling her skirt down around her legs all the more .
cn29.164.1	quote	`` We 're going to Philadelphia '' , said , pulling Kitty her skirt down around her legs all the more .
cn29.165.0	ref	`` No , I do n't think so '' , said the big man , and it was the final clincher for Ernie .
cn29.165.1	iquote	`` No , I do n't think so '' , the big man said , and it was the final clincher for Ernie .
cn29.173.0	ref	And carried him backward in a footballer 's tackle .
cn29.173.1	post-adj2	And carried him in a footballer 's tackle backward .
cn29.174.0	ref	They went down in a heap and for a long minute there was nothing to see but flailing arms and legs .
cn29.174.1	post-adj2	They went in a heap down and for a long minute there was nothing to see but flailing arms and legs .
cn29.179.0	ref	The blade came out with a snick !
cn29.179.1	post-adj2	The blade came with a snick out !
cp01.4.0	ref	Yet if he were not there , they would have missed him , as they would have missed the sounds of bees buzzing against the screen door in early June ; or the smell of thick tomato paste -- the ripe smell that was both sweet and sour -- rising up from aluminum trays wrapped in fly-dotted cheesecloth .
cp01.4.1	post-adv	Yet if he were not there , they would , as they would have missed the sounds of bees buzzing against the screen door in early June ; or the smell of thick tomato paste -- the ripe smell that was both sweet and sour -- rising up from aluminum trays wrapped in fly-dotted cheesecloth , have missed him .
cp01.4.2	pre-adv	Yet they would have missed him , as they would have missed the sounds of bees buzzing against the screen door in early June ; or the smell of thick tomato paste -- the ripe smell that was both sweet and sour -- rising up from aluminum trays wrapped in fly-dotted cheesecloth , if he were not there .
cp01.7.0	ref	They never called him by name , although he had one .
cp01.7.1	post-adv	Although he had one , they never called him by name .
cp01.9.0	ref	But this was not unusual , because youth in these quarters was always pushed at a distance from its elders .
cp01.9.1	post-adv	Because youth in these quarters was always pushed at a distance from its elders , but this was not unusual .
cp01.10.0	ref	Youth obeyed when commanded .
cp01.10.1	post-adv	When commanded youth obeyed .
cp01.14.0	ref	But the past was dead here as the present was dead .
cp01.14.1	post-adv	As the present was dead but the past was dead here .
cp01.20.0	ref	Without looking at him , without looking at anything except Drexel Street directly in front of her , she climbed up into one of those orange streetcars , rode away in it , and never came back .
cp01.20.1	pre-adj2	Without looking at anything except Drexel Street directly in front of her , without looking at him , she climbed up into one of those orange streetcars , rode away in it , and never came back .
cp01.21.0	ref	`` But she should n't have come here in the first place '' , the women had said .
cp01.21.1	quote	`` But she should n't have come here in the first place '' , had said the women .
cp01.24.0	ref	She thought she was bigger than we are because she came from Torino '' .
cp01.24.1	post-adv	Because she came from Torino she thought she was bigger than we are '' .
cp01.26.0	ref	She gave herself fancy airs !
cp01.26.1	dat-np-np	She gave fancy airs to herself !
cp01.27.0	ref	Just because she had a part on the stage in the old country , she thought she could carry her head higher than ours '' .
cp01.27.1	pre-adv	She thought she could carry her head higher than ours , just because she had a part on the stage in the old country '' .
cp01.34.0	ref	But if the Old Man even thought about his wife now , nobody cared a fig .
cp01.34.1	pre-adv	But nobody cared a fig , if the Old Man even thought about his wife now .
cp01.34.2	post-adj2	But if the Old Man even thought now about his wife , nobody cared a fig .
cp01.35.0	ref	It was enough for people to know that at one time he had looked down the street at the fleshy suppleness of a woman he had consumed -- watching her become thinner and thinner in the distance , as thin as the seams on her stockings , and still thinner .
cp01.35.1	post-adj2	It was enough for people to know that at one time he had looked at the fleshy suppleness of a woman he had consumed down the street -- watching her become thinner and thinner in the distance , as thin as the seams on her stockings , and still thinner .
cp01.44.0	ref	There seemed to be a contemptuous purpose in the way he sat there with his eyes glued to Drexel Street and his back in opposition to the church behind him .
cp01.44.1	post-adv	There seemed to be a contemptuous purpose in the way with his eyes glued to Drexel Street and his back in opposition to the church behind him he sat there .
cp01.49.0	ref	This place was hatred to him , just as hatred was his only companion in his aloneness .
cp01.49.1	post-adv	Just as hatred was his only companion in his aloneness , this place was hatred to him .
cp01.53.0	ref	It slashed the sloping manure-scented lawns with concrete steps which climbed upward to white wooden porches .
cp01.53.1	post-adj2	It slashed the sloping manure-scented lawns with concrete steps which climbed to white wooden porches upward .
cp01.55.0	ref	Even the stable-garage , which housed nothing now but the scent of rot , had a lawn before it .
cp01.55.1	post-adj2	Even the stable-garage , which housed nothing but the scent of rot now , had a lawn before it .
cp01.59.0	ref	It squatted low and square upon the sidewalk with a heavy iron grating supporting a glass facade .
cp01.59.1	post-adj2	It squatted low and square with a heavy iron grating supporting a glass facade upon the sidewalk .
cp01.61.0	ref	Above it , from a second-story showroom , wooden angels surveyed the neighborhood .
cp01.61.1	pre-adj2	From a second-story showroom , above it , wooden angels surveyed the neighborhood .
cp01.63.0	ref	Yet everywhere else sameness was stucco and wood in square blocks -- like fortresses perched against the slant of the hill , rising with the hill to the top where the church was and beyond that to the cemetery .
cp01.63.1	pre-adj2	Everywhere else yet sameness was stucco and wood in square blocks -- like fortresses perched against the slant of the hill , rising with the hill to the top where the church was and beyond that to the cemetery .
cp01.64.0	ref	Only paved alleyways tunneled through the walls of those fortresses into the mysterious core of intimacy behind the houses where backyards owned no fences , where one man 's property blended with the next to form courtyards in which no one knew privacy .
cp01.64.1	post-adj2	Only paved alleyways tunneled into the mysterious core of intimacy behind the houses where backyards owned no fences , where one man 's property blended with the next to form courtyards in which no one knew privacy through the walls of those fortresses .
cp01.66.0	ref	And the forked tongue of gossip licked its sinister way from back porch to back porch .
cp01.66.1	post-adj2	And the forked tongue of gossip licked its sinister way to back porch from back porch .
cp01.69.0	ref	Waiting for what and for whom , only he could tell and would not .
cp01.69.1	quote	Waiting for what and for whom , could tell only he and would not .
cp01.73.0	ref	The Old Man 's son threw himself down , belly first , upon a concrete step , taking in the coolness of it , and dreaming of the day he would be rich .
cp01.73.1	post-adj2	The Old Man 's son threw himself down , upon a concrete step , belly first , taking in the coolness of it , and dreaming of the day he would be rich .
cp01.77.0	ref	When he would be a man , he would be a rich man .
cp01.77.1	pre-adv	He would be a rich man , when he would be a man .
cp01.78.0	ref	He would not be like the `` rich Americans '' who lived in white-columned houses on the other side of the park .
cp01.78.1	post-adj2	He would not be like the `` rich Americans '' who lived on the other side of the park in white-columned houses .
cp01.79.0	ref	He would not ride the eight-thirty local to the city each morning .
cp01.79.1	post-adj2	He would not ride the eight-thirty local each morning to the city .
cp01.85.0	ref	He could do that when he would be a man .
cp01.85.1	post-adv	He when he would be a man could do that .
cp01.87.0	ref	He called to his sister on the porch above the steps .
cp01.87.1	post-adj2	He called on the porch above the steps to his sister .
cp01.89.0	ref	`` Laura , what would you say if I smoked a pipe '' ?
cp01.89.1	post-adv	`` Laura , what if I smoked a pipe would you say '' ?
cp01.92.0	ref	One lithe leg straddled the railing and swung loosely before the creaking , torn pales .
cp01.92.1	post-adj2	One lithe leg straddled the railing and swung before the creaking , torn pales loosely .
cp01.93.0	ref	Her tanned foot , whose arch swept high and white , pointed artfully toward tapering toes -- toes like fingers , whose tips glowed white .
cp01.93.1	post-adj2	Her tanned foot , whose arch swept high and white , pointed toward tapering toes -- toes like fingers , whose tips glowed white artfully .
cp01.98.0	ref	Even though the boy could not see them , he knew they were clouded by distance .
cp01.98.1	pre-adv	He knew they were clouded by distance , even though the boy could not see them .
cp01.103.0	ref	Well , what did that matter when the sun was shining and there were dreams to dream about ?
cp01.103.1	post-adv	Well , what when the sun was shining and there were dreams to dream about did that matter ?
cp01.104.0	ref	And as for his pipe , if he wanted to smoke one , nobody would stop him .
cp01.104.1	pre-adv	And as for his pipe nobody would stop him , if he wanted to smoke one .
cp01.106.0	ref	Suddenly he was interrupted in his daydreaming by a warm wetness lapping against his chin , and his eyes opened wide and long at the sight of a goat 's claret tongue , feasting against the salt taste of him .
cp01.106.1	post-adj2	Suddenly he was interrupted by a warm wetness lapping against his chin in his daydreaming , and his eyes opened wide and long at the sight of a goat 's claret tongue , feasting against the salt taste of him .
cp01.114.0	ref	With his mouth opened wide , he squirted the warm white milk against the roof of his mouth and his tongue savored the light , earthy taste of it .
cp01.114.1	pre-adv	He squirted the warm white milk against the roof of his mouth , with his mouth opened wide , and his tongue savored the light , earthy taste of it .
cp01.121.0	ref	There would be time enough , perhaps the Old Man reassured himself , to pay the devil his due .
cp01.121.1	dat-np-np	There would be time enough , perhaps the Old Man reassured himself , to pay his due to the devil .
cp01.124.0	ref	The clapping they made on the concrete interrupted him in the ecstatic pleasure he knew , so that he quickly released his hold on the goat and pretended to be examining its haunches for ticks .
cp01.124.1	post-adv	So that he quickly released his hold on the goat and pretended to be examining its haunches for ticks , the clapping they made on the concrete interrupted him in the ecstatic pleasure he knew .
cp02.1.0	ref	People came in and out all evening to see the baby and hold it .
cp02.1.1	post-adj2	People came all evening in and out to see the baby and hold it .
cp02.10.0	ref	Maggie and Stuart pored over figures every night , trying to find how they could squeeze out a few pennies more .
cp02.10.1	post-adj2	Maggie and Stuart pored every night over figures , trying to find how they could squeeze out a few pennies more .
cp02.11.0	ref	In desperation Maggie consulted Eugenia one afternoon : `` Do you think you could find me something I could do here at home to make some money , so I could still watch the baby and do the rest of the things '' ?
cp02.11.1	post-adv	In desperation Maggie consulted Eugenia one afternoon : `` Do you think you could find me something I , so I could still watch the baby and do the rest of the things , could do here at home to make some money '' ?
cp02.12.0	ref	`` It seems to me you have enough to do as it is '' , Eugenia said .
cp02.12.1	post-adv	`` It seems to me as it is you have enough to do '' , Eugenia said .
cp02.12.2	quote	`` It seems to me you have enough to do as it is '' , said Eugenia .
cp02.14.0	ref	`` I have plenty of odd moments when I could be doing something '' , Maggie said .
cp02.14.1	quote	`` I have plenty of odd moments when I could be doing something '' , said Maggie .
cp02.15.0	ref	`` It would make me feel a lot better , but the Woman 's Exchange is n't taking baked goods any more and I ca n't leave the baby with Grandma because she is n't strong enough and the baby 's too young to be put in a nursery '' .
cp02.15.1	post-adv	`` It would make me feel a lot better , but the Woman 's Exchange is n't taking baked goods any more and I because she is n't strong enough ca n't leave the baby with Grandma and the baby 's too young to be put in a nursery '' .
cp02.16.0	ref	`` I should think so '' , Eugenia said .
cp02.16.1	quote	`` I should think so '' , said Eugenia .
cp02.17.0	ref	`` For one thing you can stop keeping that child in starched dresses and changed from the skin out nineteen times a day '' .
cp02.17.1	post-adj2	`` For one thing you can stop keeping that child in starched dresses and changed nineteen times a day from the skin out '' .
cp02.18.0	ref	`` She 's so beautiful , and I do like to keep her looking nice '' . Maggie said .
cp02.18.1	quote	`` She 's so beautiful , and I do like to keep her looking nice '' . said Maggie .
cp02.20.0	ref	`` She 'll be just as beautiful in something that does n't have to be ironed '' , Eugenia said .
cp02.20.1	quote	`` She 'll be just as beautiful in something that does n't have to be ironed '' , said Eugenia .
cp02.21.0	ref	`` Evadna Mae Evans said she did n't put a thing on her child but a flannel wrapper until it was nine months old '' .
cp02.21.1	post-adv	`` Evadna Mae Evans said she until it was nine months old did n't put a thing on her child but a flannel wrapper '' .
cp02.23.0	ref	`` Well now , Maggie , you do n't have to snap at me '' , Eugenia said .
cp02.23.1	quote	`` Well now , Maggie , you do n't have to snap at me '' , said Eugenia .
cp02.26.0	ref	I do seem to snap at everybody these days , but I would like to think of a way to make a little extra money '' .
cp02.26.1	post-adj2	I do seem to snap these days at everybody , but I would like to think of a way to make a little extra money '' .
cp02.29.0	ref	Maggie started laughing , and she laughed so hard she could n't stop , and she kept on laughing while she lugged the clothes out to the yard to hang them up while the sun was still shining .
cp02.29.1	post-adv	Maggie started laughing , and she laughed so hard she could n't stop , and while she lugged the clothes out to the yard to hang them up while the sun was still shining she kept on laughing .
cp02.29.2	post-adv	Maggie started laughing , and she laughed so hard she could n't stop , and she kept on laughing while she lugged the clothes out to the yard while the sun was still shining to hang them up .
cp02.30.0	ref	When she came back Eugenia was sitting at the kitchen table with a pencil and envelope jotting down words and figures .
cp02.30.1	pre-adv	Eugenia was sitting at the kitchen table with a pencil and envelope jotting down words and figures when she came back .
cp02.31.0	ref	`` I have here that you could run a nursery of your own for working mothers '' , Eugenia said .
cp02.31.1	quote	`` I have here that you could run a nursery of your own for working mothers '' , said Eugenia .
cp02.39.0	ref	And Grandma is n't strong enough to take on something like that , and to tell you the truth neither am I '' .
cp02.39.1	dat-np-np	And Grandma is n't strong enough to take on something like that , and to tell the truth to you neither am I '' .
cp02.41.0	ref	She said , `` Well , those are the really interesting things , but if you do n't like any of those I can turn over some of my extra typing jobs to you , if you think you can type well enough '' .
cp02.41.1	post-adv	She said , `` Well , those are the really interesting things , but if you do n't like any of those I , if you think you can type well enough , can turn over some of my extra typing jobs to you '' .
cp02.41.2	pre-adv	She said , `` Well , those are the really interesting things , but I can turn over some of my extra typing jobs to you , if you think you can type well enough if you do n't like any of those '' .
cp02.42.0	ref	`` Oh , I 'm sure I could do that '' , Maggie said .
cp02.42.1	quote	`` Oh , I 'm sure I could do that '' , said Maggie .
cp02.44.0	ref	`` Do n't worry , I can get plenty more '' , Eugenia said , wondering where in the world she could .
cp02.44.1	quote	`` Do n't worry , I can get plenty more '' , said , wondering Eugenia where in the world she could .
cp02.45.0	ref	Maggie was looking much happier already , clearing a space on the table and chattering about how she could put up a typewriter right there , and be brushing up on her typing so Eugenia would n't be ashamed of it .
cp02.45.1	post-adv	Maggie was looking much happier already , clearing a space on the table and chattering about how she could put up a typewriter right there , and so Eugenia would n't be ashamed of it be brushing up on her typing .
cp02.46.0	ref	`` And then whenever I have a minute I can be working at it , and keep an eye on the baby and the stove at the same time .
cp02.46.1	pre-adv	`` And then I can be working at it , and keep an eye on the baby and the stove at the same time whenever I have a minute .
cp02.47.0	ref	And I can go back to my contests and be thinking while I 'm doing the washing '' .
cp02.47.1	post-adv	And I can go back to my contests and while I 'm doing the washing be thinking '' .
cp02.47.2	post-adj2	And I can go to my contests back and be thinking while I 'm doing the washing '' .
cp02.48.0	ref	`` What are you going to do with your feet so you do n't waste anything '' ?
cp02.48.1	post-adv	`` What are you going so you do n't waste anything to do with your feet '' ?
cp02.52.0	ref	`` I wish I had three wishes '' , Maggie said .
cp02.52.1	quote	`` I wish I had three wishes '' , said Maggie .
cp02.55.0	ref	The temperature dropped to twenty below at night and stood at zero during the days .
cp02.55.1	post-adj2	The temperature dropped at night to twenty below and stood at zero during the days .
cp02.56.0	ref	The cold settled like a tangible pall over the Mile High City , locking it in an icy grip that harshened its outlines and altered its physical appearance ; it had a look of grim stark realism , resembling other cities whose habitual climate was cold , instead of the sprawling bumptious open-handed greedy Western city basking in eternal sunshine at the foot of mountains stored with endless riches and resources .
cp02.56.1	post-adj2	The cold settled over the Mile High City like a tangible pall , locking it in an icy grip that harshened its outlines and altered its physical appearance ; it had a look of grim stark realism , resembling other cities whose habitual climate was cold , instead of the sprawling bumptious open-handed greedy Western city basking in eternal sunshine at the foot of mountains stored with endless riches and resources .
cp02.57.0	ref	The jobless huddled in the streets outside of employment offices , outside newspaper buildings , in parks , in relief lines , outside government agencies .
cp02.57.1	post-adj2	The jobless huddled outside of employment offices , outside newspaper buildings , in parks , in relief lines , outside government agencies in the streets .
cp02.62.0	ref	Shivering , people talked and argued ; all this government spending would have to be paid for somehow , but on the other hand desperate circumstances called for desperate remedies and something had to be done .
cp02.62.1	post-adj2	Shivering , people talked and argued ; all this government spending would have to be paid somehow for , but on the other hand desperate circumstances called for desperate remedies and something had to be done .
cp02.65.0	ref	The Abernathys said it to each other a dozen times a day .
cp02.65.1	post-adj2	The Abernathys said it a dozen times a day to each other .
cp02.70.0	ref	Presently they had to give up running the furnace at full capacity and depend on the old coal range in the kitchen , which had never been removed when the new gas range was installed , and the fireplaces and an electric heater in Grandma 's room .
cp02.70.1	post-adv	Presently they had to give up running the furnace at full capacity and depend on the old coal range in the kitchen , which had never when the new gas range was installed been removed , and the fireplaces and an electric heater in Grandma 's room .
cp02.71.0	ref	It was so cold and so wretched that a sort of desperate gaiety infected all of them , like people stormbound or shipwrecked or caught in some other freak of circumstance so that time stood still and minor anxieties fell away and the only important thing was to cling together and survive .
cp02.71.1	post-adv	It was so cold and so wretched that so that time stood still and minor anxieties fell away and the only important thing was to cling together and survive a sort of desperate gaiety infected all of them , like people stormbound or shipwrecked or caught in some other freak of circumstance .
cp02.72.0	ref	The pipes burst and they all laughed and stood in ice water to their ankles while they swabbed the bathrooms .
cp02.72.1	post-adv	The pipes burst and while they swabbed the bathrooms they all laughed and stood in ice water to their ankles .
cp02.72.2	post-adj2	The pipes burst and they all laughed and stood to their ankles in ice water while they swabbed the bathrooms .
cp02.73.0	ref	They lived mainly in the kitchen ; they moved Maggie 's bed and the baby 's basket there , and the rest of them undressed by the stove and ran groaning and shivering to the upper polar regions and plunged into icy beds .
cp02.73.1	post-adj2	They lived in the kitchen mainly ; they moved Maggie 's bed and the baby 's basket there , and the rest of them undressed by the stove and ran groaning and shivering to the upper polar regions and plunged into icy beds .
cp02.75.0	ref	`` You said a mouthful '' , Eugenia said grimly .
cp02.75.1	quote	`` You said a mouthful '' , said Eugenia grimly .
cp02.80.0	ref	`` I know you when you start talking about brains and talent '' , Maggie said .
cp02.80.1	post-adv	`` When you start talking about brains and talent I know you '' , Maggie said .
cp02.80.2	quote	`` I know you when you start talking about brains and talent '' , said Maggie .
cp02.81.0	ref	`` You 're working up to something , and if you do n't watch out you 'll ruin your whole life one of these days just to prove that the Abernathy family is superior to everything , even a depression '' .
cp02.81.1	pre-adv	`` You 're working up to something , and you 'll ruin your whole life one of these days just to prove that the Abernathy family is superior to everything , even a depression if you do n't watch out '' .
cp02.82.0	ref	`` The only thing that worries me is how I 'm going to prove it '' , Eugenia said .
cp02.82.1	quote	`` The only thing that worries me is how I 'm going to prove it '' , said Eugenia .
cp02.83.0	ref	They begged Grandma to let them put a bed in the kitchen for her , but Grandma said she was getting too old to sleep in strange beds and be seen with her teeth out , and that she hoped to die in privacy like a Christian and if the Lord willed it to be of pneumonia than it would have to be that way .
cp02.83.1	post-adv	They begged Grandma to let them put a bed in the kitchen for her , but Grandma said she was getting too old to sleep in strange beds and with her teeth out be seen , and that she hoped to die in privacy like a Christian and if the Lord willed it to be of pneumonia than it would have to be that way .
cp02.83.2	pre-adv	They begged Grandma to let them put a bed in the kitchen for her , but Grandma said she was getting too old to sleep in strange beds and be seen with her teeth out , and that she hoped to die in privacy like a Christian and than it would have to be that way if the Lord willed it to be of pneumonia .
cp02.84.0	ref	She did n't want to be the only one with a stove in her room , especially as her life span was nearly run out anyway , and she insisted that Hope have the heater .
cp02.84.1	post-adv	She , especially as her life span was nearly run out anyway , did n't want to be the only one with a stove in her room , and she insisted that Hope have the heater .
cp02.85.0	ref	Hope would n't hear of it , and she took the heater back to Grandma 's room , and Grandma took it back to Hope 's room , and the two of them dragged it back and forth until Grandma tipped it over and almost set her bedspread on fire .
cp02.85.1	post-adv	Hope would n't hear of it , and she took the heater back to Grandma 's room , and Grandma took it back to Hope 's room , and until Grandma tipped it over and almost set her bedspread on fire the two of them dragged it back and forth .
cp02.86.0	ref	She said that proved she was n't to be trusted with a fire in her room , and she could be burned to a crisp without anybody knowing it .
cp02.86.1	post-adv	She said that proved she was n't to be trusted with a fire in her room , and she could without anybody knowing it be burned to a crisp .
cp02.87.0	ref	Eugenia suspected her of deliberately overturning the heater because she was getting tired of dragging it back and forth and still wanted her own way , but Hope said if Grandma would n't have the heater nobody would have it , so Grandma had to give in .
cp02.87.1	post-adv	Because she was getting tired of dragging it back and forth and still wanted her own way Eugenia suspected her of deliberately overturning the heater , but Hope said if Grandma would n't have the heater nobody would have it , so Grandma had to give in .
cp02.87.2	post-adv	Eugenia suspected her of deliberately overturning the heater because she was getting tired of dragging it back and forth and still wanted her own way , but , so Grandma had to give in , Hope said if Grandma would n't have the heater nobody would have it .
cp02.87.3	pre-adv	Eugenia suspected her of deliberately overturning the heater because she was getting tired of dragging it back and forth and still wanted her own way , but Hope said nobody would have it if Grandma would n't have the heater , so Grandma had to give in .
cp03.10.0	ref	He 'd mentioned it , himself , at church and everybody seemed to have the idea that Tolley had left because Jenny had jilted him for Roy Robards .
cp03.10.1	post-adv	He 'd mentioned it , himself , at church and everybody seemed to have the idea that Tolley because Jenny had jilted him for Roy Robards had left .
cp03.12.0	ref	Zion stayed to get my pin , but it 'll be a cold day in June when I go back '' .
cp03.12.1	post-adv	Zion stayed to get my pin , but it when I go back 'll be a cold day in June '' .
cp03.30.0	ref	They 're not going to laugh at the Fairbrothers and Labans very long !
cp03.30.1	post-adj2	They 're not going to laugh very long at the Fairbrothers and Labans !
cp03.36.0	ref	`` Make your confession to God , Kizzie dear , not to the congregation '' .
cp03.36.1	dat-np-np	`` Make Kizzie dear to God , to your confession , not to the congregation '' .
cp03.36.2	post-adj2	`` Make your confession not to the congregation , Kizzie dear , to God '' .
cp03.37.0	ref	`` I 'll decide that when I get there .
cp03.37.1	post-adv	`` I when I get there 'll decide that .
cp03.43.0	ref	Returning to the log-house he found some favorite lines from Jonathan Swift on his lips : `` Under the window in stormy weather I marry this man and woman together .
cp03.43.1	pre-adj2	Returning to the log-house he found some favorite lines from Jonathan Swift on his lips : `` in stormy weather under the window I marry this man and woman together .
cp03.47.0	ref	If he died before she did , she would never be unable to resist opening it .
cp03.47.1	post-adv	If before she did he died , she would never be unable to resist opening it .
cp03.47.2	pre-adv	She would never be unable to resist opening it , if he died before she did .
cp03.50.0	ref	`` You 've told God , Frank '' , he said .
cp03.50.1	dat-np-np	`` You 've told Frank , to God '' , he said .
cp03.50.2	quote	`` You 've told God , Frank '' , said he .
cp03.53.0	ref	Surely now his beloved son could rest in peace .
cp03.53.1	pre-adj2	Now surely his beloved son could rest in peace .
cp03.54.0	ref	`` ' And let me go , for the night gathers me , and in the night shall no man gather fruit ' '' .
cp03.54.1	post-adv	`` ' And let , for the night gathers me , and in the night shall no man gather fruit , me go ' '' .
cp03.62.0	ref	Mr. Robards -- Jenny was the only person she knew of in the Mt. Pleasant neighborhood who called him that -- was kind but too easygoing .
cp03.62.1	post-adj2	Mr. Robards -- Jenny was the only person she knew in the Mt. Pleasant neighborhood of who called him that -- was kind but too easygoing .
cp03.64.0	ref	He could put a stop to it , she told him again and again .
cp03.64.1	quote	He could put a stop to it , told she him again and again .
cp03.68.0	ref	And if I ever hear you say ' Mist Laban ' again I 'll scream .
cp03.68.1	pre-adv	And I 'll scream if I ever hear you say ' Mist Laban ' again .
cp03.69.0	ref	And do n't tell me you did n't at church Sunday .
cp03.69.1	post-adj2	And do n't tell me you did n't Sunday at church .
cp03.71.0	ref	He really had n't meant to , he assured her , but it was plain to her that the importance of these small things was lost on Mr. Robards .
cp03.71.1	quote	He really had n't meant to , assured he her , but it was plain to her that the importance of these small things was lost on Mr. Robards .
cp03.72.0	ref	How strange it was that he could give her this handsome house and carte blanche as to its beautiful furnishings , and fail her in -- spiritual ways .
cp03.72.1	dat-np-np	How strange it was that he could give this handsome house and carte blanche as to its beautiful furnishings to her , and fail her in -- spiritual ways .
cp03.76.0	ref	He called her `` the Mare '' much as Mrs. Whipsnade spoke of `` the Queen , God bless her '' .
cp03.76.1	post-adv	Much as Mrs. Whipsnade spoke of `` the Queen , God bless her '' he called her `` the Mare '' .
cp03.78.0	ref	For the first few months of their marriage she had tried to be nice about Gunny , going out with him to watch this pearl without price stamp imperiously around in her stall .
cp03.78.1	post-adj2	For the first few months of their marriage she had tried to be nice about Gunny , going with him out to watch this pearl without price stamp imperiously around in her stall .
cp03.85.0	ref	She mus n't annoy Gunny whose foal was due then too !
cp03.85.1	post-adj2	She mus n't annoy Gunny whose foal was due too then !
cp03.86.0	ref	Listening for hours to his laments that the war and `` Mist Fair 's '' poverty afterwards had robbed the mare of many a racing triumph , and to his predictions of greatness for the procession of foals to come , Jenny could look forward to years of conflict with an animal who disliked her intensely and showed it .
cp03.86.1	post-adj2	Listening to his laments that the war and `` Mist Fair 's '' poverty afterwards had robbed the mare of many a racing triumph , and to his predictions of greatness for the procession of foals to come for hours , Jenny could look forward to years of conflict with an animal who disliked her intensely and showed it .
cp03.89.0	ref	Tillie was a fine midwife and could get here quick , he suggested .
cp03.89.1	quote	Tillie was a fine midwife and could get here quick , suggested he .
cp03.89.2	post-adj2	Tillie was a fine midwife and could get quick here , he suggested .
cp03.91.0	ref	The chances were against his being here to humor her when her time came , she was sure .
cp03.91.1	post-adv	The chances were against when her time came his being here to humor her , she was sure .
cp03.91.2	quote	The chances were against his being here to humor her when her time came , was she sure .
cp03.93.0	ref	Night after night he stayed with Gunny in the dead of winter , rubbing her with quarts of expensive liniment , fussing over her bran mash as the cook did over charlotte russe , tracking manure on the pretty new carpet when he did come to the house .
cp03.93.1	post-adv	Night after night he stayed with Gunny in the dead of winter , as the cook did over charlotte russe rubbing her with quarts of expensive liniment , fussing over her bran mash , tracking manure on the pretty new carpet when he did come to the house .
cp03.93.2	post-adv	Night after night he stayed with Gunny in the dead of winter , when he did come to the house rubbing her with quarts of expensive liniment , fussing over her bran mash as the cook did over charlotte russe , tracking manure on the pretty new carpet .
cp03.93.3	post-adj2	Night after night he stayed in the dead of winter with Gunny , rubbing her with quarts of expensive liniment , fussing over her bran mash as the cook did over charlotte russe , tracking manure on the pretty new carpet when he did come to the house .
cp03.94.0	ref	Yet when the dear baby came , he had Tillie over here in a jiffy , and was as attentive and sweet and worried and happy when it was all over as any husband could have been .
cp03.94.1	post-adv	Yet when the dear baby came , he when it was all over had Tillie over here in a jiffy , and was as attentive and sweet and worried and happy as any husband could have been .
cp03.94.2	pre-adv	Yet he had Tillie over here in a jiffy , and was as attentive and sweet and worried and happy when it was all over as any husband could have been , when the dear baby came .
cp03.94.3	post-adj2	Yet when the dear baby came , he had Tillie in a jiffy over here , and was as attentive and sweet and worried and happy when it was all over as any husband could have been .
cp03.96.0	ref	There was something not nice about triplets , though their father seemed pleased , showing no disappointment that they had n't been the son he wanted , saying , `` You do n't see triplets trippin ' down the pike ever ' day , Miss Jen , hon .
cp03.96.1	post-adv	Though their father seemed pleased , showing no disappointment that they had n't been the son he wanted , saying , `` You do n't see triplets trippin ' down the pike ever ' day , Miss Jen , hon , there was something not nice about triplets .
cp03.103.0	ref	Just wait till she saw the Mare 's foal .
cp03.103.1	post-adv	Till she saw the Mare 's foal just wait .
cp03.111.0	ref	Of course she was n't herself right now , but as her strength came back her spirits did n't seem to rise with it .
cp03.111.1	pre-adv	Of course she was n't herself right now , but her spirits did n't seem to rise with it as her strength came back .
cp03.115.0	ref	So had Miss Shawnee Rakestraw , full of criticisms about the changes here , giving thanks that her dear old father had gone to his Heavenly Rest last year , saying how much she enjoyed her boarding house in town in inclement weather , was looking forward to Quinzaine Spa this summer .
cp03.115.1	post-adj2	So had Miss Shawnee Rakestraw , full of criticisms about the changes here , giving thanks that her dear old father had gone last year to his Heavenly Rest , saying how much she enjoyed her boarding house in town in inclement weather , was looking forward to Quinzaine Spa this summer .
cp03.117.0	ref	Miss Kizzie had been right snippy ever since they were married , though you 'd have thought a namesake would have brought her round .
cp03.117.1	post-adv	Miss Kizzie , ever since they were married , had been right snippy though you 'd have thought a namesake would have brought her round .
cp03.117.2	post-adv	Miss Kizzie , though you 'd have thought a namesake would have brought her round , had been right snippy ever since they were married .
cp03.119.0	ref	But when Miss Jen went over right away to return the call , Miss Kiz could n't have been very cordial , for she 'd come back before she hardly had time to get there .
cp03.119.1	post-adv	But when Miss Jen went over right away to return the call , Miss Kiz could n't , for she 'd come back before she hardly had time to get there , have been very cordial .
cp03.119.2	post-adv	But when Miss Jen went over right away to return the call , Miss Kiz could n't have been very cordial , for she before she hardly had time to get there 'd come back .
cp03.119.3	pre-adv	But Miss Kiz could n't have been very cordial , for she 'd come back before she hardly had time to get there , when Miss Jen went over right away to return the call .
cp03.120.0	ref	More and more , these days , she 'd been driving that pretty little mare that looked like her , over to Tillie 's and Nick 's -- his own old square frame box on posts , chickens and cats and pups under the house , everybody friendly inside , making a to-do over the babies dressed like dollies .
cp03.120.1	pre-adj2	These days , more and more , she 'd been driving that pretty little mare that looked like her , over to Tillie 's and Nick 's -- his own old square frame box on posts , chickens and cats and pups under the house , everybody friendly inside , making a to-do over the babies dressed like dollies .
cp03.121.0	ref	Though he was glad she got on well with his young folks , she ought to be welcome at the finest house in the land , too .
cp03.121.1	pre-adv	She ought to be welcome at the finest house in the land , too , though he was glad she got on well with his young folks .
cp03.121.2	post-adj2	Though he was glad she got on with his young folks well , she ought to be welcome at the finest house in the land , too .
cp03.122.0	ref	It made him pretty hot under the collar , after the idea Miss Sis had given him , to be told by Miss Kiz that her holy spa was all reserved for this summer and next , if you please , and that much as she regretted it , they would be unable to entertain Mrs. Robards and the children .
cp03.122.1	post-adv	It made him pretty hot under the collar , after the idea Miss Sis had given him , to be told by Miss Kiz that her holy spa , if you please , was all reserved for this summer and next , and that much as she regretted it , they would be unable to entertain Mrs. Robards and the children .
cp03.125.0	ref	If he ever did such a thing again she 'd die of shame .
cp03.125.1	pre-adv	She 'd die of shame if he ever did such a thing again .
cp03.133.0	ref	Zion was surprised when Roy 's buggy stopped beside her on the pike one early summer day as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town .
cp03.133.1	post-adv	Zion when Roy 's buggy stopped beside her on the pike one early summer day as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town was surprised .
cp03.133.2	post-adv	Zion was surprised when as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town Roy 's buggy stopped beside her on the pike one early summer day .
cp03.133.3	post-adj3	Zion was surprised when Roy 's buggy stopped on the pike beside her one early summer day as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town .
cp03.133.4	post-adj3	Zion was surprised when Roy 's buggy stopped one early summer day on the pike beside her as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town .
cp03.133.5	post-adj3	Zion was surprised when Roy 's buggy stopped beside her one early summer day on the pike as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town .
cp03.133.6	post-adj3	Zion was surprised when Roy 's buggy stopped , one early summer day , beside her on the pike as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town .
cp03.133.7	post-adj3	Zion was surprised when Roy 's buggy stopped on the pike one early summer day , beside her , as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town .
cp03.134.0	ref	Roy smiled -- he did have a nice smile -- took off his hat most politely , told her to hop in , and he 'd give her a lift to Quinzaine .
cp03.134.1	dat-np-np	Roy smiled -- he did have a nice smile -- took off his hat most politely , told her to hop in , and he 'd give a lift to Quinzaine to her .
cp03.135.0	ref	Her hesitation was only momentary and she hoped he did n't notice it , as she settled herself , asked quickly how Miss Jenny and the babies were getting on .
cp03.135.1	post-adv	Her hesitation was only momentary and , as she settled herself , asked quickly how Miss Jenny and the babies were getting on , she hoped he did n't notice it .
cp04.1.0	ref	`` He must have forgiven me '' , Henrietta murmured to the room .
cp04.1.1	quote	`` He must have forgiven me '' , murmured Henrietta to the room .
cp04.8.0	ref	Their childhood would have been quite circumspect without Hetty 's flair for drama , especially through the long summers .
cp04.8.1	post-adj2	Their childhood would have been quite circumspect especially through the long summers , without Hetty 's flair for drama .
cp04.9.0	ref	In winter , in the city , there had been the Maneret School , which taught excellently with a kind of austere passion for knowledge ; there had been lessons in French from a small Polish nobleman with a really profound distaste for his pupils ; there had been the dancing class -- Miss Craddock , thin and tireless , with her supervising wand and her everlasting one-two-three , one-two-three .
cp04.9.1	post-adj2	In winter , in the city , there had been the Maneret School , which taught with a kind of austere passion for knowledge excellently ; there had been lessons in French from a small Polish nobleman with a really profound distaste for his pupils ; there had been the dancing class -- Miss Craddock , thin and tireless , with her supervising wand and her everlasting one-two-three , one-two-three .
cp04.12.0	ref	It was safe to assume that Papa , sighing heavily , had said many times to his remaining daughter , `` Thank God your poor mother was spared this '' , and indeed it might be true that it had been easier for Henrietta to leave , with her hand in Charles ' hand , just because her `` poor mother '' was gone already and would never know .
cp04.12.1	post-adv	It was safe to assume that Papa , sighing heavily , had said many times to his remaining daughter , `` Thank God your poor mother was spared this '' , and indeed it might be true that it , just because her `` poor mother '' was gone already and would never know , had been easier for Henrietta to leave , with her hand in Charles ' hand .
cp04.14.0	ref	But I would have gone anyway , thought Henrietta .
cp04.14.1	iquote	But I would have gone anyway , Henrietta thought .
cp04.15.0	ref	She had always been able to ignore the moral question because there had been no choice .
cp04.15.1	post-adv	She because there had been no choice had always been able to ignore the moral question .
cp04.16.0	ref	Only at this moment -- perhaps because it was before dawn and she was lying in Doaty 's bed -- she found herself examining how others might regard her .
cp04.16.1	pre-adv	Only at this moment she found herself examining how others might regard her -- perhaps because it was before dawn and she was lying in Doaty 's bed .
cp04.19.0	ref	If Adelia had felt about someone as Henrietta felt about Charles , would she have run away with him ?
cp04.19.1	post-adv	If Adelia as Henrietta felt about Charles had felt about someone , would she have run away with him ?
cp04.24.0	ref	The birds were really awake now in a colloquy of music , and light was beginning to creep across the room , touching sill and door , table and chair and all of Doaty 's flowers in their artificial blossom and leaf .
cp04.24.1	post-adj2	The birds were really awake in a colloquy of music now , and light was beginning to creep across the room , touching sill and door , table and chair and all of Doaty 's flowers in their artificial blossom and leaf .
cp04.25.0	ref	Before anything else , she would go to Doaty 's grave with flowers from Doaty 's forgotten garden .
cp04.25.1	post-adj2	Before anything else , she would go with flowers from Doaty 's forgotten garden to Doaty 's grave .
cp04.32.0	ref	On a thrusting spray thick with thorns and dewdrops and swelling pink buds , like a summer Valentine , a bird balanced and sang , nondescriptly brown and alive with its own music , a little engine of song .
cp04.32.1	pre-adj2	Like a summer Valentine , on a thrusting spray thick with thorns and dewdrops and swelling pink buds , a bird balanced and sang , nondescriptly brown and alive with its own music , a little engine of song .
cp04.33.0	ref	It was so pretty and artless that she felt like a child again and would have enjoyed running out barefoot to play on the wet grass with all the growing things , but Doaty never permitted bare feet and she was decidedly not a child but une femme d'un certain age .
cp04.33.1	post-adj2	It was so pretty and artless that she felt again like a child and would have enjoyed running out barefoot to play on the wet grass with all the growing things , but Doaty never permitted bare feet and she was decidedly not a child but une femme d'un certain age .
cp04.35.0	ref	Rosa , unbelievably , was not yet up and about , reassurance that Rosa was human .
cp04.35.1	post-adj2	Rosa , unbelievably , was up and about not yet , reassurance that Rosa was human .
cp04.38.0	ref	The poodle came gleefully to Henrietta and begged for the flowers , supplicating the air with prayerful forepaws .
cp04.38.1	post-adj2	The poodle came to Henrietta gleefully and begged for the flowers , supplicating the air with prayerful forepaws .
cp04.41.0	ref	`` Go change your shoes before you turn around '' .
cp04.41.1	post-adv	`` Go before you turn around change your shoes '' .
cp04.47.0	ref	She smiled and bowed , recalling the princess-in-a-carriage feeling she had enjoyed when she was a child .
cp04.47.1	post-adv	She smiled and bowed , recalling the princess-in-a-carriage feeling she when she was a child had enjoyed .
cp04.49.0	ref	An old man , sitting against the wall of a cottage and waiting for the sun to find him , gave her a more than reflective look as she passed , the sap still plainly rising in his branches .
cp04.49.1	dat-np-np	An old man , sitting against the wall of a cottage and waiting for the sun to find him , gave a more than reflective look to her as she passed , the sap still plainly rising in his branches .
cp04.49.2	post-adv	As she passed , an old man , sitting against the wall of a cottage and waiting for the sun to find him , gave her a more than reflective look the sap still plainly rising in his branches .
cp04.53.0	ref	`` Summer 's been slow to come '' , he said .
cp04.53.1	quote	`` Summer 's been slow to come '' , said he .
cp04.56.0	ref	`` I 'm taking them to the cemetery '' , said Henrietta , out of a vague feeling of hospitality .
cp04.56.1	iquote	`` I 'm taking them to the cemetery '' , Henrietta said , out of a vague feeling of hospitality .
cp04.58.0	ref	See half of 'em in their graves before I choose my own coffin .
cp04.58.1	post-adv	Before I choose my own coffin see half of 'em in their graves .
cp04.62.0	ref	`` It 's nice of you '' , Henrietta said doubtfully .
cp04.62.1	quote	`` It 's nice of you '' , said Henrietta doubtfully .
cp04.64.0	ref	He straightened himself , soldierly against the wall , and pulled his sprawled feet together so they stood side by side in their old boots .
cp04.64.1	post-adv	He so they stood side by side in their old boots straightened himself , soldierly against the wall , and pulled his sprawled feet together .
cp04.64.2	post-adj2	He straightened himself , against the wall soldierly , and pulled his sprawled feet together so they stood side by side in their old boots .
cp04.66.0	ref	`` Every month , f'r three days '' , he said happily , `` I take no water into my system , no water whatsoever .
cp04.66.1	dat-np-np	`` Every month , f'r three days '' , he said happily , `` I take no water whatsoever into my system , to no water .
cp04.66.2	pre-adj2	`` F'r three days , every month '' , he said happily , `` I take no water into my system , no water whatsoever .
cp04.71.0	ref	He looked up at her sharply .
cp04.71.1	post-adj2	He looked up sharply at her .
cp04.73.0	ref	She did suddenly , through the link of memory with his father , old Titus , who must have been in his nineties when Henrietta ran away .
cp04.73.1	post-adv	She did suddenly , through the link of memory with his father , old Titus , who must when Henrietta ran away have been in his nineties .
cp04.73.2	post-adj2	She did through the link of memory with his father , old Titus , who must have been in his nineties when Henrietta ran away , suddenly .
cp04.76.0	ref	It must be that son who sat before her now , shriveled to half his size and half his senses .
cp04.76.1	post-adj2	It must be that son who sat now before her , shriveled to half his size and half his senses .
cp04.80.0	ref	Ran away on a black night with a lawful wedded man .
cp04.80.1	post-adj3	Ran on a black night away with a lawful wedded man .
cp04.80.2	post-adj3	Ran with a lawful wedded man on a black night away .
cp04.80.3	post-adj3	Ran away with a lawful wedded man on a black night .
cp04.80.4	post-adj3	Ran with a lawful wedded man away on a black night .
cp04.80.5	post-adj3	Ran on a black night with a lawful wedded man away .
cp04.82.0	ref	`` You do seem to '' , said Henrietta , impressed .
cp04.82.1	iquote	`` You do seem to '' , Henrietta said , impressed .
cp04.83.0	ref	`` Ca n't blame a man for leavin ' his wife '' , he said quite cheerfully .
cp04.83.1	quote	`` Ca n't blame a man for leavin ' his wife '' , said he quite cheerfully .
cp04.84.0	ref	`` Left mine many a time , only she never knew it .
cp04.84.1	dat-np-np	`` Left many a time to mine , only she never knew it .
cp04.88.0	ref	He gave a short hard laugh and looked at her knowingly .
cp04.88.1	post-adj2	He gave a short hard laugh and looked knowingly at her .
cp04.89.0	ref	`` You 'd be the one to say '' , he observed , and she found herself liking his approval none too well , but she could not defend herself and say that her actions were `` different '' , since all actions had their own laws .
cp04.89.1	post-adv	`` You 'd be the one to say '' , he observed , and she found herself liking his approval none too well , but she , since all actions had their own laws , could not defend herself and say that her actions were `` different '' .
cp04.89.2	quote	`` You 'd be the one to say '' , observed he , and she found herself liking his approval none too well , but she could not defend herself and say that her actions were `` different '' , since all actions had their own laws .
cp04.91.0	ref	Well , she had not come back to Great Island to be understood , praised or condemned .
cp04.91.1	post-adj2	Well , she had not come to Great Island back to be understood , praised or condemned .
cp04.93.0	ref	She started to move away , just as a woman came out of the cottage , a big-boned , drab-haired figure with a clean apron tied over her limp print dress .
cp04.93.1	post-adv	She started , just as a woman came out of the cottage , a big-boned , drab-haired figure with a clean apron tied over her limp print dress , to move away .
cp04.94.0	ref	She smiled vaguely at Henrietta and spoke to the old man .
cp04.94.1	post-adj2	She smiled at Henrietta vaguely and spoke to the old man .
cp04.96.0	ref	`` Y'r dam ' porridge is no breakfast '' , he said .
cp04.96.1	quote	`` Y'r dam ' porridge is no breakfast '' , said he .
cp04.99.0	ref	`` He 's lowly today '' , his grand-daughter said wearily , and bent to pick it up .
cp04.99.1	quote	`` He 's lowly today '' , said his grand-daughter wearily , and bent to pick it up .
cp04.103.0	ref	He looked piously to heaven and said , `` Beer do n't affect the tissues none '' , and the ingenious hypocrisy of this defense pleased Henrietta so that she forgave him his stint of malevolence .
cp04.103.1	post-adv	He looked piously to heaven and said , `` Beer do n't affect the tissues none '' , and so that she forgave him his stint of malevolence the ingenious hypocrisy of this defense pleased Henrietta .
cp04.103.2	post-adj2	He looked to heaven piously and said , `` Beer do n't affect the tissues none '' , and the ingenious hypocrisy of this defense pleased Henrietta so that she forgave him his stint of malevolence .
cp04.114.0	ref	The woman -LRB- she must have been a tiny baby when Hetty and Delia had stood arm in arm , watching great age grow small -RRB- answered the nod with her own .
cp04.114.1	post-adv	The woman -LRB- she must when Hetty and Delia had stood arm in arm , watching great age grow small have been a tiny baby -RRB- answered the nod with her own .
cp04.120.0	ref	Henrietta looked down at her bouquet , still lively with its color and scent , and set her feet on their journey 's way again , leaving the village street and crossing the first field , Folly dancing ahead of her .
cp04.120.1	post-adj2	Henrietta looked at her bouquet , still lively with its color and scent down , and set her feet on their journey 's way again , leaving the village street and crossing the first field , Folly dancing ahead of her .
cp04.122.0	ref	They were covered with tiny white blossoms , their scant roots clawing at the stony ground , and wild birds darted in and about and through them so they were nearly alive with the rustle and cry .
cp04.122.1	post-adv	They were covered with tiny white blossoms , their scant roots clawing at the stony ground , and so they were nearly alive with the rustle and cry wild birds darted in and about and through them .
cp04.123.0	ref	The air was full of sounds too but placid ones , a terrestrial humming as much out of the earth as out of the blue sky .
cp04.123.1	post-adj2	The air was full of sounds as out of the blue sky but placid ones , a terrestrial humming as much out of the earth too .
cp04.124.0	ref	She felt mindless , walking , and almost easy until the church spire told her she was near the cemetery , and she caught herself wondering what she would say to Doaty .
cp04.124.1	post-adv	Until the church spire told her she was near the cemetery she felt mindless , walking , and almost easy , and she caught herself wondering what she would say to Doaty .
cp04.125.0	ref	Both church and graveyard were smaller than she remembered them -LRB- how many things had lessened while she was gone away -RRB- but the headstones had grown so thick in thirty years that to find one named `` Dorothy Tredding '' seemed suddenly impossible .
cp04.125.1	post-adv	Both church and graveyard were smaller than she remembered them -LRB- how many things while she was gone away had lessened -RRB- but the headstones had grown so thick in thirty years that to find one named `` Dorothy Tredding '' seemed suddenly impossible .
cp04.127.0	ref	The day 's sun was gathering its strength in gold , and she wished she had brought her parasol , if only to shade Doaty 's flowers .
cp04.127.1	post-adv	The day 's sun was gathering its strength in gold , and she wished she , if only to shade Doaty 's flowers , had brought her parasol .
cp04.129.0	ref	She remembered , suddenly , a night of savage moonlight and scudding clouds when she and Adelia , having dared each other , had stolen out of their great safe house and come here , hand in hand , hoping and fearing ghosts .
cp04.129.1	post-adv	When she and Adelia , having dared each other , had stolen out of their great safe house and come here , hand in hand , hoping and fearing ghosts she remembered , suddenly , a night of savage moonlight and scudding clouds .
cp05.2.0	ref	The Ainus were a primitive people , already living on the island before the principal ancestors of the Japanese came from Southern Asia .
cp05.2.1	post-adv	The Ainus were a primitive people , before the principal ancestors of the Japanese came from Southern Asia already living on the island .
cp05.9.0	ref	Her nose was higher of bridge , her complexion so pale as to be quite susceptible to sunburn , and the fish and vegetable diet of her forebears had given her teeth that were white and regular and strong .
cp05.9.1	dat-np-np	Her nose was higher of bridge , her complexion so pale as to be quite susceptible to sunburn , and the fish and vegetable diet of her forebears had given teeth that were white and regular and strong to her .
cp05.12.0	ref	She had been in Japan just one week .
cp05.12.1	post-adj2	She had been just one week in Japan .
cp05.13.0	ref	It was an alien land , and she hated it intensely ; she was already considering putting in rebellious requests for duty at San Diego , Bremerton , the Great Lakes , Pensacola -- any place the Navy had a hospital -- with a threat to resign her commission if the request were not granted .
cp05.13.1	post-adv	It was an alien land , and she hated it intensely ; she was already considering putting in rebellious requests for duty at San Diego , Bremerton , the Great Lakes , Pensacola -- any place the Navy had a hospital -- with a threat if the request were not granted to resign her commission .
cp05.18.0	ref	At present the doctor 's main concern was in seeing to it that Japanese salvage firms were not permitted to operate on the hulks of warships sunk too close inshore , because the work involved setting off nerve-shattering blasts at all hours .
cp05.18.1	post-adv	At present the doctor 's main concern was in , because the work involved setting off nerve-shattering blasts at all hours , seeing to it that Japanese salvage firms were not permitted to operate on the hulks of warships sunk too close inshore .
cp05.19.0	ref	Tommy was interested in psychiatry , because there was much an understanding nurse could do to help the patients .
cp05.19.1	post-adv	Because there was much an understanding nurse could do to help the patients , Tommy was interested in psychiatry .
cp05.25.0	ref	Sooner or later , all the gray Navy ships came in here ; if Tommy sat long enough , she would be sure to see all the young officers she had met in San Diego and Long Beach .
cp05.25.1	pre-adv	Sooner or later , all the gray Navy ships came in here ; she would be sure to see all the young officers she had met in San Diego and Long Beach , if Tommy sat long enough .
cp05.28.0	ref	He came through from the Fleet Bar , which was stag , with the ice cubes tinkling in a glass he carried .
cp05.28.1	post-adj2	He came with the ice cubes tinkling in a glass he carried through from the Fleet Bar , which was stag .
cp05.29.0	ref	When he saw Tommy sitting alone , the tinkling sound stopped .
cp05.29.1	pre-adv	The tinkling sound stopped , when he saw Tommy sitting alone .
cp05.33.0	ref	Japan did something to a man -- and it was n't just Japan , either , because the same thing applied anywhere overseas .
cp05.33.1	post-adv	Japan did something to a man -- and , because the same thing applied anywhere overseas , it was n't just Japan , either .
cp05.42.0	ref	The nice-looking young officer fell back on his heels , open-mouthed and blushing .
cp05.42.1	post-adj2	The nice-looking young officer fell on his heels back , open-mouthed and blushing .
cp05.43.0	ref	At least , he had the decency to blush , she thought .
cp05.43.1	quote	At least , he had the decency to blush , thought she .
cp05.46.0	ref	`` Oh , yes -- you had ideas '' ! Tommy interrupted furiously .
cp05.46.1	quote	`` Oh , yes -- you had ideas '' ! interrupted Tommy furiously .
cp05.48.0	ref	Then she jerked her thumb toward the door in a very American gesture , and dropped into Navy slang .
cp05.48.1	post-adj2	Then she jerked her thumb in a very American gesture toward the door , and dropped into Navy slang .
cp05.52.0	ref	She felt like a fool , too .
cp05.52.1	post-adj2	She felt too , like a fool .
cp05.55.0	ref	Nobody had addressed her in broken English at any of those places , nobody had suggested that she was n't American .
cp05.55.1	post-adj2	Nobody had addressed her at any of those places in broken English , nobody had suggested that she was n't American .
cp05.57.0	ref	Now , having been sent halfway around the world on a job she had not asked for , Tommy was being humiliated at every turn .
cp05.57.1	post-adj2	Now , having been sent on a job she had not asked for halfway around the world , Tommy was being humiliated at every turn .
cp05.58.0	ref	She looked around , self-consciously .
cp05.58.1	post-adj2	She looked self-consciously , around .
cp05.68.0	ref	Tommy would n't know ; after coming to America , her parents had spoken only English .
cp05.68.1	pre-adv	Tommy would n't know ; her parents had spoken only English , after coming to America .
cp05.70.0	ref	She had been sent to the wrong place for duty .
cp05.70.1	post-adj2	She had been sent for duty to the wrong place .
cp05.75.0	ref	She finished her hamburger and drank her coffee and paid her check ; she got out of the coffee shop before the incident could be repeated .
cp05.75.1	post-adv	She finished her hamburger and drank her coffee and paid her check ; before the incident could be repeated she got out of the coffee shop .
cp05.76.0	ref	Eating while angry had given her a slight indigestion .
cp05.76.1	dat-np-np	Eating while angry had given a slight indigestion to her .
cp05.76.2	post-adv	While angry eating had given her a slight indigestion .
cp05.78.0	ref	Then , after a while , she went to her mirror .
cp05.78.1	pre-adj2	After a while , then , she went to her mirror .
cp05.87.0	ref	Doc Doolittle 's scheduled appearance at captain 's mast was a very unusual thing , because the discipline dispensed there is ordinarily for the young and immature , and a chief is naturally expected to stay off the report .
cp05.87.1	post-adv	Because the discipline dispensed there is ordinarily for the young and immature , and a chief is naturally expected to stay off the report , Doc Doolittle 's scheduled appearance at captain 's mast was a very unusual thing .
cp05.91.0	ref	The lieutenant was not entirely wrong in the belief .
cp05.91.1	post-adj2	The lieutenant was not in the belief wrong entirely .
cp05.93.0	ref	He had come into the Navy too young , with the image of the fun-loving Guns Appleby before him .
cp05.93.1	post-adv	He , with the image of the fun-loving Guns Appleby before him , had come into the Navy too young .
cp05.101.0	ref	Doc had been under restriction to the ship since the Bustard left Subic .
cp05.101.1	post-adv	Doc since the Bustard left Subic had been under restriction to the ship .
cp05.102.0	ref	This deprived him of liberty in Hong Kong , but he told Boats McCafferty that Hong Kong was a book he had read before , and the Navy would always bring him there again , some day .
cp05.102.1	dat-np-np	This deprived him of liberty in Hong Kong , but he told Boats McCafferty that Hong Kong was a book he had read before , and the Navy would always bring some day there again , to him .
cp05.103.0	ref	At Yokosuka he was restricted to the confines of the Base because Walt Perry , being thoughtful , knew that Doc might have to draw some medical supplies from the hospital or the Supply Base .
cp05.103.1	post-adv	At Yokosuka he because Walt Perry , being thoughtful , knew that Doc might have to draw some medical supplies from the hospital or the Supply Base was restricted to the confines of the Base .
cp05.104.0	ref	This gave Doc the whole range of the naval establishment , and suited him quite well .
cp05.104.1	dat-np-np	This gave the whole range of the naval establishment to Doc , and suited him quite well .
cp05.112.0	ref	`` I 'll be there , but I 'll walk '' , Doc said .
cp05.112.1	quote	`` I 'll be there , but I 'll walk '' , said Doc .
cp06.2.0	ref	He considered some interesting excursion but he was on the road every day from dawn to dusk .
cp06.2.1	post-adj2	He considered some interesting excursion but he was on the road from dawn to dusk every day .
cp06.9.0	ref	`` You missed it '' , Buzz 's voice said , `` You should have gone over to the Pagan Room with us .
cp06.9.1	post-adj2	`` You missed it '' , Buzz 's voice said , `` You should have gone with us over to the Pagan Room .
cp06.14.0	ref	`` Tough '' , Buzz said , `` Listen , we 're having a stag dinner over at the Pagan Room on Friday .
cp06.14.1	post-adj2	`` Tough '' , Buzz said , `` Listen , we 're having a stag dinner on Friday over at the Pagan Room .
cp06.17.0	ref	Owen wanted to be pleasant because Buzz worked the territory next to his , but he had n't come to Reno for stag dinners .
cp06.17.1	post-adv	Owen wanted because Buzz worked the territory next to his to be pleasant , but he had n't come to Reno for stag dinners .
cp06.17.2	post-adj2	Owen wanted to be pleasant because Buzz worked the territory next to his , but he had n't come for stag dinners to Reno .
cp06.20.0	ref	When Owen was finally rid of him , there was a timid rap at the door .
cp06.20.1	pre-adv	There was a timid rap at the door , when Owen was finally rid of him .
cp06.23.0	ref	`` I 'm Mrs. Gertrude Parker '' , a soft voice explained , `` And I 'd like to talk to you for a few minutes , please '' .
cp06.23.1	post-adj2	`` I 'm Mrs. Gertrude Parker '' , a soft voice explained , `` And I 'd like to talk for a few minutes to you , please '' .
cp06.33.0	ref	`` You see '' , she said , looking past him into the room , where the highball glasses sparkled dully in the bright light , `` you and I ca n't understand the many hardships they have to undergo '' .
cp06.33.1	post-adj2	`` You see '' , she said , looking into the room , where the highball glasses sparkled dully in the bright light past him , `` you and I ca n't understand the many hardships they have to undergo '' .
cp06.38.0	ref	It gave her a lewd , winking effect .
cp06.38.1	dat-np-np	It gave a lewd , winking effect to her .
cp06.44.0	ref	People do n't know how much they give away about themselves by remarks like that .
cp06.44.1	post-adj3	People do n't know how much they give about themselves away by remarks like that .
cp06.44.2	post-adj3	People do n't know how much they give by remarks like that about themselves away .
cp06.44.3	post-adj3	People do n't know how much they give away by remarks like that about themselves .
cp06.44.4	post-adj3	People do n't know how much they give by remarks like that away about themselves .
cp06.44.5	post-adj3	People do n't know how much they give about themselves by remarks like that away .
cp06.49.0	ref	Several people passed in the hall and stared as he slowly retreated , trying to close the door a little , and she slowly leaned toward him and raised her voice .
cp06.49.1	post-adv	As he slowly retreated , trying to close the door a little , and she slowly leaned toward him and raised her voice several people passed in the hall and stared .
cp06.55.0	ref	I do this work all on my own , because I understand the difficulties and I want to help these lay-sisters .
cp06.55.1	post-adv	Because I understand the difficulties and I want to help these lay-sisters , I do this work all on my own .
cp06.57.0	ref	They travel in pairs as much as a hundred-and-fifty miles a day '' .
cp06.57.1	post-adj2	They travel as much as a hundred-and-fifty miles a day in pairs '' .
cp06.62.0	ref	`` That 's hardly a Christian approach '' , she remonstrated .
cp06.62.1	quote	`` That 's hardly a Christian approach '' , remonstrated she .
cp06.68.0	ref	`` God , I take it , plays no part in this '' , she said waspishly .
cp06.68.1	quote	`` God , I take it , plays no part in this '' , said she waspishly .
cp06.69.0	ref	`` God does n't have any appliance or cosmetics '' , he said heatedly before he caught himself .
cp06.69.1	post-adv	Before he caught himself `` God does n't have any appliance or cosmetics '' , he said heatedly .
cp06.69.2	quote	`` God does n't have any appliance or cosmetics '' , said he heatedly before he caught himself .
cp06.76.0	ref	`` I can imagine '' , she said .
cp06.76.1	quote	`` I can imagine '' , said she .
cp06.79.0	ref	They must be freezing up there now .
cp06.79.1	post-adj2	They must be freezing now up there .
cp06.83.0	ref	`` I have no card '' , she said bitterly .
cp06.83.1	quote	`` I have no card '' , said she bitterly .
cp06.85.0	ref	I only hope my talking to you has helped you a little , anyway , because you need spiritual bucking-up '' .
cp06.85.1	post-adv	Because you need spiritual bucking-up , I only hope my talking to you has helped you a little , anyway '' .
cp06.86.0	ref	She looked crestfallen , as if he had somehow disappointed the whole human race .
cp06.86.1	post-adv	As if he had somehow disappointed the whole human race , she looked crestfallen .
cp06.88.0	ref	It took him about fifteen minutes to calm himself ; then he realized he was hungry .
cp06.88.1	dat-np-np	It took about fifteen minutes to him to calm himself ; then he realized he was hungry .
cp06.89.0	ref	He showered , shaved , dressed and went down to the dining room for breakfast .
cp06.89.1	post-adj2	He showered , shaved , dressed and went for breakfast down to the dining room .
cp06.92.0	ref	His lawyer had sent him a statement on his overdue alimony , and there was a letter from the Collector of Internal Revenue asking him to stop in his office and explain last year 's exemptions .
cp06.92.1	dat-np-np	His lawyer had sent a statement on his overdue alimony to him , and there was a letter from the Collector of Internal Revenue asking him to stop in his office and explain last year 's exemptions .
cp06.93.0	ref	He ate breakfast in a sullen mood , but afterwards , when he walked out onto Virginia Street , he felt braced .
cp06.93.1	pre-adv	He ate breakfast in a sullen mood , but afterwards he felt braced , when he walked out onto Virginia Street .
cp06.97.0	ref	Although it was only three o'clock , he stopped in at the Golden Calf .
cp06.97.1	pre-adv	He stopped in at the Golden Calf , although it was only three o'clock .
cp06.99.0	ref	Just to test himself , he played roulette for quarters on his old combination , five and seventeen , and within an hour , he had won , surprisingly , twenty dollars .
cp06.99.1	post-adj2	Just to test himself , he played roulette on his old combination , five and seventeen , for quarters and within an hour , he had won , surprisingly , twenty dollars .
cp06.100.0	ref	The way was opening up ; when the management brought around champagne , the breakfast settled its whirling around in his stomach .
cp06.100.1	pre-adv	The way was opening up ; the breakfast settled its whirling around in his stomach , when the management brought around champagne .
cp06.105.0	ref	The women had a bright shining expectancy as they leaned out from the wall and gazed splendidly into the distance , while the men were stern but hopeful .
cp06.105.1	post-adv	As they leaned out from the wall and gazed splendidly into the distance , the women had a bright shining expectancy while the men were stern but hopeful .
cp06.105.2	post-adv	While the men were stern but hopeful , the women had a bright shining expectancy as they leaned out from the wall and gazed splendidly into the distance .
cp06.107.0	ref	`` I wonder if they did eat each other at the end '' , Owen mused .
cp06.107.1	quote	`` I wonder if they did eat each other at the end '' , mused Owen .
cp06.111.0	ref	She sat down and played two slots at once , looking grim , as if bested by mechanical devices , and Owen felt sorry for the lay-sisters depending on her support .
cp06.111.1	post-adv	She sat down and played two slots at once , as if bested by mechanical devices , looking grim , and Owen felt sorry for the lay-sisters depending on her support .
cp06.112.0	ref	A dried-up cowboy sat down next to him in the blonde 's place .
cp06.112.1	post-adj2	A dried-up cowboy sat down in the blonde 's place next to him .
cp06.113.0	ref	He was a little more authentic than usual because he smelled slightly of the stables .
cp06.113.1	post-adv	Because he smelled slightly of the stables he was a little more authentic than usual .
cp06.113.2	post-adj2	He was a little more authentic than usual because he smelled of the stables slightly .
cp06.114.0	ref	`` What you need is a steady martingale '' , the cowboy announced after watching Owen play .
cp06.114.1	post-adv	After watching Owen play `` what you need is a steady martingale '' , the cowboy announced .
cp06.114.2	quote	`` What you need is a steady martingale '' , announced the cowboy after watching Owen play .
cp06.117.0	ref	`` I 'm just logging '' , the cowboy explained .
cp06.117.1	quote	`` I 'm just logging '' , explained the cowboy .
cp06.128.0	ref	I figure if I can get any kind of publicity campaign going , I 'll land him on TV -- you know , one of those favorite horses for some Western hero .
cp06.128.1	pre-adv	I figure I 'll land him on TV -- you know , one of those favorite horses for some Western hero , if I can get any kind of publicity campaign going .
cp06.131.0	ref	Five came up while Owen was listening to The Wrangler and he neglected to play , a loss of ten dollars .
cp06.131.1	post-adv	While Owen was listening to The Wrangler five came up and he neglected to play , a loss of ten dollars .
cp06.133.0	ref	When he looked in the back , Mrs. Gertrude Parker was marking keno cards .
cp06.133.1	pre-adv	Mrs. Gertrude Parker was marking keno cards , when he looked in the back .
cp06.138.0	ref	The management discreetly withdrew the green stuff into the office and gave the customers chips or checks or premium points .
cp06.138.1	dat-np-np	The management discreetly withdrew the green stuff into the office and gave chips or checks or premium points to the customers .
cp06.145.0	ref	`` We 're all going over to Lake Tahoe and try our luck at Cal-Neva '' , Buzz explained , still instigating .
cp06.145.1	quote	`` We 're all going over to Lake Tahoe and try our luck at Cal-Neva '' , explained Buzz , still instigating .
cp06.146.0	ref	`` We ran into a guy at the Pagan Room who guarantees we can beat the wheel .
cp06.146.1	post-adj2	`` We ran at the Pagan Room into a guy who guarantees we can beat the wheel .
cp06.147.0	ref	He started out as a stickman , then became a pit boss until the Club found him crossroading .
cp06.147.1	post-adv	He until the Club found him crossroading started out as a stickman , then became a pit boss .
cp06.149.0	ref	`` I 'm allergic to Tahoe '' , Owen explained .
cp06.149.1	quote	`` I 'm allergic to Tahoe '' , explained Owen .
cp06.152.0	ref	`` We 'll see you around later '' .
cp06.152.1	post-adj2	`` We 'll see you later around '' .
cp06.156.0	ref	`` I have n't had any luck since I was a baby '' .
cp06.156.1	post-adv	`` I since I was a baby have n't had any luck '' .
cp06.161.0	ref	`` If you go broke '' , she said , smiling up at him , `` I 'll leave you '' .
cp06.161.1	pre-adv	She said , smiling up at him , `` I 'll leave you `` if you go broke '' .
cp06.162.0	ref	`` Sounds like real love '' , Owen said .
cp06.162.1	quote	`` Sounds like real love '' , said Owen .
cp06.164.0	ref	`` My name 's Gisele '' , the blonde said after she ordered a Scotch .
cp06.164.1	post-adv	After she ordered a Scotch `` my name 's Gisele '' , the blonde said .
cp06.164.2	quote	`` My name 's Gisele '' , said the blonde after she ordered a Scotch .
cp07.11.0	ref	Those named in the Greek paper were manufacturing reasons to steal aft under pretence of some call of duty , so as to be near Spencer , watching an opportunity to communicate with him .
cp07.11.1	post-adv	Those named in the Greek paper , so as to be near Spencer , watching an opportunity to communicate with him , were manufacturing reasons to steal aft under pretence of some call of duty .
cp07.24.0	ref	`` And also , sir , two articles which were considered souvenirs now must be regarded in another light entirely .
cp07.24.1	post-adj2	`` And also , sir , two articles which were considered souvenirs now must be regarded entirely in another light .
cp07.37.0	ref	And it was clear that Adrien was not mistaken , for both Small and Cromwell took no step toward aiding in the sending up of the new topgallant mast till Philip Spencer had given the signal to obey .
cp07.37.1	post-adv	And it was clear that Adrien was not mistaken , for till Philip Spencer had given the signal to obey both Small and Cromwell took no step toward aiding in the sending up of the new topgallant mast .
cp07.38.0	ref	Then , with disappointment evident upon their faces , they moved to the work .
cp07.38.1	pre-adv	Then they moved to the work , with disappointment evident upon their faces .
cp07.41.0	ref	When the mast was raised , Alexander gave the order for Small and Cromwell to be placed under arrest , and now three figures in irons sprawled upon the open deck and terror stalked the Somers .
cp07.41.1	pre-adv	Alexander gave the order for Small and Cromwell to be placed under arrest , when the mast was raised , and now three figures in irons sprawled upon the open deck and terror stalked the Somers .
cp07.43.0	ref	One of the missing handspikes came out of its hiding place after Midshipman Tillotson had been insolently disobeyed by Seaman Wilson .
cp07.43.1	post-adv	After Midshipman Tillotson had been insolently disobeyed by Seaman Wilson one of the missing handspikes came out of its hiding place .
cp07.44.0	ref	Tillotson had reported the man to Gansevoort and an hour later , with back turned , had been attacked by Wilson , brandishing the weapon .
cp07.44.1	post-adj2	Tillotson had reported the man to Gansevoort and with back turned , an hour later , had been attacked by Wilson , brandishing the weapon .
cp07.53.0	ref	`` That would be worse than useless '' , Alexander broke in .
cp07.53.1	quote	`` That would be worse than useless '' , broke Alexander in .
cp07.56.0	ref	Then we have informed a large number of our crew that when they reach the United States , they will be punished but that in the meanwhile , they may run loose and are expected to perform their jobs in good order .
cp07.56.1	pre-adv	Then we have informed a large number of our crew that they will be punished , when they reach the United States , but that in the meanwhile , they may run loose and are expected to perform their jobs in good order .
cp07.60.0	ref	They are about to do so at any moment as it is .
cp07.60.1	post-adv	As it is they are about to do so at any moment .
cp07.60.2	post-adj2	They are about to do at any moment so as it is .
cp07.65.0	ref	We are not going to be rushed and murdered '' , Alexander said .
cp07.65.1	quote	We are not going to be rushed and murdered '' , said Alexander .
cp07.69.0	ref	Anything is possible when anarchy has the upper hand '' .
cp07.69.1	post-adv	When anarchy has the upper hand anything is possible '' .
cp07.73.0	ref	`` We ourselves must stand sentinel '' . Alexander said .
cp07.73.1	quote	`` We ourselves must stand sentinel '' . said Alexander .
cp07.76.0	ref	A great deal of labor we have as well , for we are too uncertain of where trust may be placed '' .
cp07.76.1	post-adv	For we are too uncertain of where trust may be placed , a great deal of labor we have as well '' .
cp07.77.0	ref	And when he was alone again in the cabin , Alexander lowered his head into his arms and wept , for he knew full well what must be done , what in the end would be done .
cp07.77.1	post-adv	For he knew full well what must be done , what in the end would be done , and when he was alone again in the cabin , Alexander lowered his head into his arms and wept .
cp07.77.2	pre-adv	And Alexander lowered his head into his arms and wept , for he knew full well what must be done , what in the end would be done , when he was alone again in the cabin .
cp07.77.3	post-adj2	And when he was alone in the cabin again , Alexander lowered his head into his arms and wept , for he knew full well what must be done , what in the end would be done .
cp07.79.0	ref	And when he did , when he gave to his ship that protection necessary to preserve her honor , he knew he would lose forever the Navy to which he had dedicated his soul .
cp07.79.1	pre-adv	And he knew he would lose forever the Navy to which he had dedicated his soul , when he did , when he gave to his ship that protection necessary to preserve her honor .
cp07.83.0	ref	It came to him as he wept there aboard the Somers that it was as foolish to strive for greatness as to seek to storm the gates of heaven .
cp07.83.1	post-adv	As he wept there aboard the Somers it came to him that it was as foolish to strive for greatness as to seek to storm the gates of heaven .
cp07.85.0	ref	One did one 's best and if fortune smiled , there was a reward .
cp07.85.1	pre-adv	One did one 's best and there was a reward , if fortune smiled .
cp07.86.0	ref	One did one 's best and if fortune frowned , an eighteen-year-old boy with murder in his heart sailed aboard one 's ship .
cp07.86.1	pre-adv	One did one 's best and an eighteen-year-old boy with murder in his heart sailed aboard one 's ship , if fortune frowned .
cp07.87.0	ref	And Alexander sobbed like a girl for the dreams he had had , and he felt no shame .
cp07.87.1	post-adj2	And Alexander sobbed for the dreams he had had like a girl , and he felt no shame .
cp07.88.0	ref	God knew his tears were his to shed if he so desired , for it had not been with an egotist 's rage for fame that he had held precious his naval career .
cp07.88.1	post-adv	God knew his tears were his if he so desired to shed , for it had not been with an egotist 's rage for fame that he had held precious his naval career .
cp07.88.2	post-adv	God knew , for it had not been with an egotist 's rage for fame that he had held precious his naval career , his tears were his to shed if he so desired .
cp07.89.0	ref	Another field had given him fame enough to satisfy any egotist .
cp07.89.1	dat-np-np	Another field had given fame enough to satisfy any egotist to him .
cp07.93.0	ref	Yes , he would bring the Somers safely into New York harbor but at a price .
cp07.93.1	post-adj2	Yes , he would bring the Somers into New York harbor safely but at a price .
cp07.95.0	ref	And after a while , he dried his tears and walked the deck as a captain should with assurance and dignity .
cp07.95.1	post-adv	And after a while , he as a captain should dried his tears and walked the deck with assurance and dignity .
cp07.97.0	ref	The prisoners averted their eyes but not before he had glimpsed hatred and anger .
cp07.97.1	post-adv	Not before he had glimpsed hatred and anger the prisoners averted their eyes but .
cp07.104.0	ref	I know nothing of any plot , if there is such a thing '' .
cp07.104.1	post-adv	If there is such a thing , I know nothing of any plot '' .
cp07.112.0	ref	He said , `` Cromwell is telling you the truth .
cp07.112.1	dat-np-np	He said , `` Cromwell is telling the truth to you .
cp07.120.0	ref	He expected nothing for himself but that which naturally follows those marked for misfortune .
cp07.120.1	post-adj2	He expected nothing but that which naturally follows those marked for misfortune for himself .
cp07.121.0	ref	The red-haired captain , towering above the prisoner as a symbol of decency and authority , was shocked to find himself looking with sympathy upon Philip Spencer .
cp07.121.1	post-adj2	The red-haired captain , towering as a symbol of decency and authority above the prisoner , was shocked to find himself looking with sympathy upon Philip Spencer .
cp07.124.0	ref	And because fortune had favored neither the prisoner nor the red-haired captain , they would be each other 's undoing .
cp07.124.1	pre-adv	And they would be each other 's undoing , because fortune had favored neither the prisoner nor the red-haired captain .
cp07.133.0	ref	`` That 's true '' , Spencer agreed and withdrew himself from the conversation .
cp07.133.1	quote	`` That 's true '' , agreed and withdrew Spencer himself from the conversation .
cp07.134.0	ref	His eyes went back to contemplation of the sea .
cp07.134.1	post-adj2	His eyes went to contemplation of the sea back .
cp07.135.0	ref	`` I am innocent , Captain '' , Cromwell said again .
cp07.135.1	quote	`` I am innocent , Captain '' , said Cromwell again .
cp07.137.0	ref	And though it was logical that a man who could plot mass murder would not hesitate to speak an untruth , still it was difficult to understand why Spencer spoke only for Cromwell .
cp07.137.1	pre-adv	And still it was difficult to understand why Spencer spoke only for Cromwell , though it was logical that a man who could plot mass murder would not hesitate to speak an untruth .
cp07.137.2	post-adj2	And though it was logical that a man who could plot mass murder would not hesitate to speak an untruth , still it was difficult to understand why Spencer spoke for Cromwell only .
cp07.139.0	ref	No action of his could be interpreted in his favor and four midshipmen , prior to their knowing the significance of the Greek paper , had seen it in Cromwell 's hands while Spencer whispered explanations .
cp07.139.1	post-adv	No action of his could be interpreted in his favor and four midshipmen , prior to their knowing the significance of the Greek paper , while Spencer whispered explanations had seen it in Cromwell 's hands .
cp07.140.0	ref	`` I thought '' , Midshipman Rogers had told Alexander , `` that Spencer was teaching him geometry '' .
cp07.140.1	dat-np-np	`` I thought '' , Midshipman Rogers had told Alexander , `` that Spencer was teaching geometry to him '' .
cp07.143.0	ref	Some of these apprentices were , in physical strength , already men and doubtless a percentage of them were Spencer 's followers .
cp07.143.1	post-adj2	Some of these apprentices were , already , in physical strength men and doubtless a percentage of them were Spencer 's followers .
cp08.1.0	ref	Rachel steered me along toward a school for young boys beginning to study the Torah .
cp08.1.1	post-adj2	Rachel steered me toward a school for young boys beginning to study the Torah along .
cp08.7.0	ref	With his head erect , he approached , not glancing at us , and passed by with his clear eyes raised and fixed straight ahead .
cp08.7.1	post-adv	With his head erect , he with his clear eyes raised and fixed straight ahead approached , not glancing at us , and passed by .
cp08.7.2	pre-adv	He approached , not glancing at us , and passed by with his clear eyes raised and fixed straight ahead , with his head erect .
cp08.12.0	ref	His hands were swinging at his sides , and he passed through the dingy market place with his back straight and , pivoting on his heel , he entered an old stone building .
cp08.12.1	post-adv	His hands were swinging at his sides , and with his back straight he passed through the dingy market place and , pivoting on his heel , he entered an old stone building .
cp08.15.0	ref	`` When your mother was here he must have been a young boy .
cp08.15.1	pre-adv	He must have been a young boy `` when your mother was here .
cp08.25.0	ref	I thought he would ask us to leave because Rachel and I were bare-armed , but he looked down into his beard and preceded us down the corridor .
cp08.25.1	post-adv	I thought he because Rachel and I were bare-armed would ask us to leave , but he looked down into his beard and preceded us down the corridor .
cp08.30.0	ref	Little boys crowded together on long wooden benches , and in the center of the room sat the teacher .
cp08.30.1	post-adj2	Little boys crowded on long wooden benches together , and in the center of the room sat the teacher .
cp08.35.0	ref	They chanted a fixed tune in time to the report of the stick .
cp08.35.1	post-adj2	They chanted a fixed tune to the report of the stick in time .
cp08.36.0	ref	Each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked back and forth on the bench in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of Europe .
cp08.36.1	post-adj3	Each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked on the bench back and forth in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of Europe .
cp08.36.2	post-adj3	Each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of Europe on the bench back and forth .
cp08.36.3	post-adj3	Each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked back and forth in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of Europe on the bench .
cp08.36.4	post-adj3	Each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of Europe back and forth on the bench .
cp08.36.5	post-adj3	Each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked on the bench in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of Europe back and forth .
cp08.40.0	ref	Since they did not glance curiously at us once , I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction .
cp08.40.1	pre-adv	I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction , since they did not glance curiously at us once .
cp08.40.2	post-adj3	Since they did not glance at us curiously once , I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction .
cp08.40.3	post-adj3	Since they did not glance once at us curiously , I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction .
cp08.40.4	post-adj3	Since they did not glance curiously once at us , I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction .
cp08.40.5	post-adj3	Since they did not glance once curiously at us , I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction .
cp08.40.6	post-adj3	Since they did not glance at us once curiously , I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction .
cp08.43.0	ref	One boy who rocked back and forth over his worn book had bright red hair and freckles .
cp08.43.1	post-adj2	One boy who rocked over his worn book back and forth had bright red hair and freckles .
cp08.47.0	ref	I stared at him for a long time .
cp08.47.1	post-adj2	I stared for a long time at him .
cp08.54.0	ref	His body pitched back and forth on the bench .
cp08.54.1	post-adj2	His body pitched on the bench back and forth .
cp08.58.0	ref	We walked down the cool hall silently .
cp08.58.1	post-adj2	We walked silently down the cool hall .
cp08.77.0	ref	When we were fighting , a few of our orthodox people were lying down in the roads so we could not pass .
cp08.77.1	post-adv	When we were fighting , a few of our orthodox people so we could not pass were lying down in the roads .
cp08.77.2	pre-adv	A few of our orthodox people were lying down in the roads so we could not pass , when we were fighting .
cp08.80.0	ref	You had to have convictions to lie down in the road in all those clothes and appear as though you might wish to turn yourself out of your own home .
cp08.80.1	post-adv	You had to have convictions to as though you might wish to turn yourself out of your own home lie down in the road in all those clothes and appear .
cp08.80.2	post-adj2	You had to have convictions to lie down in all those clothes in the road and appear as though you might wish to turn yourself out of your own home .
cp08.89.0	ref	She said , `` Sometimes I think they are keeping religion for us while we play around .
cp08.89.1	post-adv	She said , `` Sometimes I think they while we play around are keeping religion for us .
cp08.92.0	ref	I said quietly , respectfully , `` What did she do here ?
cp08.92.1	post-adj2	I said respectfully , quietly , `` What did she do here ?
cp08.96.0	ref	But when she saw the children you have just visited , she wanted to take them away and put them out in the country , in the kibbutzim .
cp08.96.1	pre-adv	But she wanted to take them away and put them out in the country , in the kibbutzim , when she saw the children you have just visited .
cp08.99.0	ref	When she loved , it was with a passion that drove her along and carried along with her those things she loved .
cp08.99.1	pre-adv	It was with a passion that drove her along and carried along with her those things she loved , when she loved .
cp08.100.0	ref	Nothing was too impossible for her to do when she wanted .
cp08.100.1	post-adv	When she wanted nothing was too impossible for her to do .
cp08.110.0	ref	It was an impulse when she was here in Me'a She'arim -- I was with her -- that led her to stay in Israel .
cp08.110.1	post-adv	When she was here in Me'a She'arim it was an impulse -- I was with her -- that led her to stay in Israel .
cp08.111.0	ref	Your mother wanted to bring children to Israel so that they could leave their ghettos .
cp08.111.1	post-adv	Your mother wanted so that they could leave their ghettos to bring children to Israel .
cp08.113.0	ref	If she could not take the children out of this section , at least she could take other children out of their countries and put them on the farms .
cp08.113.1	pre-adv	At least she could take other children out of their countries and put them on the farms , if she could not take the children out of this section .
cp08.118.0	ref	The soles of her sandals reported sharply on the cobblestones .
cp08.118.1	post-adj2	The soles of her sandals reported on the cobblestones sharply .
cp08.126.0	ref	He helped her meet people so she could go out and do the work she wanted .
cp08.126.1	post-adv	He helped so she could go out and do the work she wanted her meet people .
cp08.135.0	ref	Then he would walk off for a few days alone in the direction of Europe .
cp08.135.1	post-adj3	Then he would walk off alone for a few days in the direction of Europe .
cp08.135.2	post-adj3	Then he would walk off in the direction of Europe alone for a few days .
cp08.135.3	post-adj3	Then he would walk off for a few days in the direction of Europe alone .
cp08.135.4	post-adj3	Then he would walk off in the direction of Europe for a few days alone .
cp08.135.5	post-adj3	Then he would walk off alone in the direction of Europe for a few days .
cp08.137.0	ref	Your mother would always retrieve him when he wandered off , and she would send him home to his son .
cp08.137.1	post-adv	Your mother when he wandered off would always retrieve him , and she would send him home to his son .
cp08.137.2	post-adj2	Your mother would always retrieve him when he wandered off , and she would send him to his son home .
cp08.139.0	ref	Then his son did something '' -- Rachel threw up her hands -- `` I do n't know what , but something , to an official here -- it was during the Mandate -- and the son was imprisoned .
cp08.139.1	post-adj2	Then his son did something '' -- Rachel threw up her hands -- `` I do n't know what , but something , here to an official -- it was during the Mandate -- and the son was imprisoned .
cp08.150.0	ref	Rachel gave me a direct , bright-eyed look .
cp08.150.1	dat-np-np	Rachel gave a direct , bright-eyed look to me .
cp08.153.0	ref	He complained to me once that I must talk to her .
cp08.153.1	post-adj2	He complained once to me that I must talk to her .
cp08.154.0	ref	When I did , she shrugged her shoulders and said that Reuveni wanted her to marry him .
cp08.154.1	pre-adv	She shrugged her shoulders and said that Reuveni wanted her to marry him , when I did .
cp08.156.0	ref	He had known when he first helped her to meet the right people and work with them that she did not intend to marry him .
cp08.156.1	post-adv	He when he first helped her to meet the right people and work with them had known that she did not intend to marry him .
cp08.158.0	ref	She came to me one day .
cp08.158.1	post-adj2	She came one day to me .
cp08.160.0	ref	And she said that after this man had been dead for a week she had gone to Reuveni and accepted his proposal .
cp08.160.1	pre-adv	And she said that she had gone to Reuveni and accepted his proposal after this man had been dead for a week .
cp08.166.0	ref	He took her to a doctor , for she was run down , nervous , did not care where she was .
cp08.166.1	post-adv	For she was run down , nervous , did not care where she was , he took her to a doctor .
cp09.4.0	ref	For when he began to talk and dream all at the same time , making his plans as he went , she had begun dreaming too .
cp09.4.1	post-adv	For when he began to talk and dream all at the same time , as he went making his plans , she had begun dreaming too .
cp09.4.2	pre-adv	For she had begun dreaming too , when he began to talk and dream all at the same time , making his plans as he went .
cp09.8.0	ref	`` Did I see him about to swing low in a chariot ?
cp09.8.1	post-adj2	`` Did I see him about to swing in a chariot low ?
cp09.10.0	ref	Maybe I saw him on a barge with a gang of Ethiopians poling it '' .
cp09.10.1	post-adj2	Maybe I saw him with a gang of Ethiopians poling it on a barge '' .
cp09.14.0	ref	Out of the church and into his big car , it tooling over the road with him driving and the headlights sweeping the pike ahead and after he hit college , his expansiveness , the quaint little pine board tourist courts , cabins really , with a cute naked light bulb in the ceiling -LRB- unfrosted and naked as a streetlight , like the one on the corner where you used to play when you were a kid , where you watched the bats swooping in after the bugs , watching in between your bouts at hopscotch -RRB- , a room complete with moths pinging the light and the few casual cockroaches cruising the walls , an insect Highway Patrol with feelers waving .
cp09.14.1	post-adv	Out of the church and into his big car , with him driving it tooling over the road and the headlights sweeping the pike ahead and after he hit college , his expansiveness , the quaint little pine board tourist courts , cabins really , with a cute naked light bulb in the ceiling -LRB- unfrosted and naked as a streetlight , like the one on the corner where you used to play when you were a kid , where you watched the bats swooping in after the bugs , watching in between your bouts at hopscotch -RRB- , a room complete with moths pinging the light and the few casual cockroaches cruising the walls , an insect Highway Patrol with feelers waving .
cp09.14.2	post-adv	Out of the church and into his big car , it tooling over the road with him driving and the headlights sweeping the pike ahead and after he hit college , his expansiveness , the quaint little pine board tourist courts , cabins really , with a cute naked light bulb in the ceiling -LRB- unfrosted and naked as a streetlight , like the one on the corner where you used when you were a kid to play , where you watched the bats swooping in after the bugs , watching in between your bouts at hopscotch -RRB- , a room complete with moths pinging the light and the few casual cockroaches cruising the walls , an insect Highway Patrol with feelers waving .
cp09.15.0	ref	And the bed that sagged in a certain place where all the weight had been put too many times before and the walls fine and thin for overhearing talk in the next room when Gratt went out for ice , the sound coming through the walls like something on the other side of the curtain , so you knew they heard you when they were quiet and while you lay wondering what they had heard you listened .
cp09.15.1	post-adv	And the bed that sagged in a certain place where all the weight had been put too many times before and the walls fine and thin for , when Gratt went out for ice , overhearing talk in the next room the sound coming through the walls like something on the other side of the curtain , so you knew they heard you when they were quiet and while you lay wondering what they had heard you listened .
cp09.15.2	post-adv	And the bed that sagged in a certain place where all the weight had been put too many times before and the walls fine and thin for overhearing talk in the next room when Gratt went out for ice , so you knew they heard you when they were quiet and while you lay wondering what they had heard you listened , the sound coming through the walls like something on the other side of the curtain .
cp09.15.3	post-adv	And the bed that sagged in a certain place where all the weight had been put too many times before and the walls fine and thin for overhearing talk in the next room when Gratt went out for ice , the sound coming through the walls like something on the other side of the curtain , so you knew when they were quiet they heard you and while you lay wondering what they had heard you listened .
cp09.15.4	pre-adv	And the bed that sagged in a certain place where all the weight had been put too many times before and the walls fine and thin for overhearing talk in the next room when Gratt went out for ice , the sound coming through the walls like something on the other side of the curtain , so you knew they heard you when they were quiet and you listened while you lay wondering what they had heard .
cp09.16.0	ref	And Gratt Shafer would be in Memphis today for the wedding rehearsal and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along .
cp09.16.1	pre-adj2	And Gratt Shafer would be in Memphis today for the wedding rehearsal and tomorrow then he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along .
cp09.16.2	post-adj3	And Gratt Shafer would be today in Memphis for the wedding rehearsal and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along .
cp09.16.3	post-adj3	And Gratt Shafer would be for the wedding rehearsal today in Memphis and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along .
cp09.16.4	post-adj3	And Gratt Shafer would be in Memphis for the wedding rehearsal today and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along .
cp09.16.5	post-adj3	And Gratt Shafer would be for the wedding rehearsal in Memphis today and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along .
cp09.16.6	post-adj3	And Gratt Shafer would be today for the wedding rehearsal in Memphis and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along .
cp09.19.0	ref	Or you could hope the parachute would n't open just so you could say you saw it not open , not because you meant any harm to Starkey Poe in his suit of red underwear , but mainly because you were tired of being an old maid -- a thing which can not admit when it thinks it might be pregnant , but must stand the dizzy feeling all alone and go on like everything is all right instead of being able to say to somebody in a normal voice : `` I think I 'm pregnant '' .
cp09.19.1	post-adv	Or you just so you could say you saw it not open , not because you meant any harm to Starkey Poe in his suit of red underwear , but mainly because you were tired of being an old maid -- a thing which can not admit when it thinks it might be pregnant , but must stand the dizzy feeling all alone and go on like everything is all right instead of being able to say to somebody in a normal voice : `` I think I 'm pregnant '' could hope the parachute would n't open .
cp09.19.2	post-adv	Or you could hope the parachute would n't open just so you could say you saw it not open , not because you meant any harm to Starkey Poe in his suit of red underwear , but mainly because you were tired of being an old maid -- a thing which can not admit when it thinks it might be pregnant , but must like everything is all right stand the dizzy feeling all alone and go on instead of being able to say to somebody in a normal voice : `` I think I 'm pregnant '' .
cp09.21.0	ref	Or you could wish your daddy would really do it -- kill Gratt Shafer like he said when you all the time , all along , could feel the nerve draining out of him like air out of a punctured tire when you are on a muddy road alone and it is raining and at night .
cp09.21.1	post-adv	Or you could wish your daddy would really like he said when you all the time , all along , could feel the nerve draining out of him like air out of a punctured tire when you are on a muddy road alone and it is raining and at night do it -- kill Gratt Shafer .
cp09.21.2	post-adv	Or you could wish your daddy would really do it -- kill Gratt Shafer like when you all the time , all along , could feel the nerve draining out of him like air out of a punctured tire when you are on a muddy road alone and it is raining and at night he said .
cp09.21.3	post-adj2	Or you could wish your daddy would really do it -- kill Gratt Shafer like he said when you all the time , all along , could feel the nerve draining like air out of a punctured tire when you are on a muddy road alone and it is raining and at night out of him .
cp09.22.0	ref	So you sit in the car and listen to the air run out and listen to the rain and see the mud in front of the headlights , waiting for you , for your new spectator pumps , waiting for you to squat by yourself out there in your tight skirt , crying and afraid and trying to get that damned son-of-a-bitch tire off , because that is being an old maid too , if you happen to drive a car , it is changing the tire yourself in the night , and in the mud and the rain , hating to get out in it but afraid to stay and afraid to try to walk out for help .
cp09.22.1	post-adv	So you sit in the car and listen to the air run out and listen to the rain and see the mud in front of the headlights , waiting for you , for your new spectator pumps , waiting for you , because that is being an old maid too , if you happen to drive a car , it is changing the tire yourself in the night , and in the mud and the rain , hating to get out in it but afraid to stay and afraid to try to walk out for help , to squat by yourself out there in your tight skirt , crying and afraid and trying to get that damned son-of-a-bitch tire off .
cp09.22.2	post-adv	So you sit in the car and listen to the air run out and listen to the rain and see the mud in front of the headlights , waiting for you , for your new spectator pumps , waiting for you to squat by yourself out there in your tight skirt , crying and afraid and trying to get that damned son-of-a-bitch tire off , because that , if you happen to drive a car , is being an old maid too , it is changing the tire yourself in the night , and in the mud and the rain , hating to get out in it but afraid to stay and afraid to try to walk out for help .
cp09.23.0	ref	And every sound that might be the rain also might be the man who thinks after he has raped you he has to beat your brains out with a tire tool so you wo n't tell , a combination like ham and eggs , rape her and kill her , and that is being an old maid too .
cp09.23.1	post-adv	And every sound that might be the rain also might be the man who thinks after he has raped you he has , so you wo n't tell , to beat your brains out with a tire tool a combination like ham and eggs , rape her and kill her , and that is being an old maid too .
cp09.23.2	pre-adv	And every sound that might be the rain also might be the man who thinks he has to beat your brains out with a tire tool so you wo n't tell , a combination like ham and eggs , rape her and kill her after he has raped you , and that is being an old maid too .
cp09.24.0	ref	It is not having his baby nestled warm and fat against your breast and it is not having somebody that really gives a damn whether some tramp cracks your skull .
cp09.24.1	post-adv	It is not having his baby nestled warm and fat against your breast and it is not having somebody that whether some tramp cracks your skull really gives a damn .
cp09.25.0	ref	And most of all it is not having the only man you could love , whether he drives a bread truck or delivers the mail or checks the berry crates down at the sheds , or owns seventeen oil wells and six diamond mines , for if you are anybody what he is or does makes no difference if he is the one .
cp09.25.1	post-adv	Whether he drives a bread truck or delivers the mail or checks the berry crates down at the sheds , or owns seventeen oil wells and six diamond mines , and most of all it is not having the only man you could love for if you are anybody what he is or does makes no difference if he is the one .
cp09.25.2	post-adv	For if you are anybody what he is or does makes no difference if he is the one , and most of all it is not having the only man you could love , whether he drives a bread truck or delivers the mail or checks the berry crates down at the sheds , or owns seventeen oil wells and six diamond mines .
cp09.25.3	post-adv	And most of all it is not having the only man you could love , whether he drives a bread truck or delivers the mail or checks the berry crates down at the sheds , or owns seventeen oil wells and six diamond mines , for if he is the one if you are anybody what he is or does makes no difference .
cp09.25.4	pre-adv	And most of all it is not having the only man you could love , whether he drives a bread truck or delivers the mail or checks the berry crates down at the sheds , or owns seventeen oil wells and six diamond mines , for what he is or does makes no difference if he is the one if you are anybody .
cp09.27.0	ref	And he can be on the way to Memphis , your Gratt Shafer can , and you discover you can stay alive and hate him and love him and want him even if it means you want him -- really want him -- dead .
cp09.27.1	post-adv	And he can be on the way to Memphis , your Gratt Shafer can , and you discover you even if it means you want him -- really want him -- dead can stay alive and hate him and love him and want him .
cp09.28.0	ref	Because if you ca n't then nobody else can either , nobody else can have him .
cp09.28.1	pre-adv	Because then nobody else can either if you ca n't , nobody else can have him .
cp09.30.0	ref	If it is love , you do n't .
cp09.30.1	pre-adv	You do n't , if it is love .
cp09.32.0	ref	Even if that 's all the promise he ever gave or ever will give , the giving of it once was enough and you believed it then and you will always believe it , even when it is finally the only thing in the world you have left to believe , and the whole world is telling you that one was a lie .
cp09.32.1	post-adv	Even if that 's all the promise he ever gave or ever will give , the giving of it once was enough and you believed it then and you , even when it is finally the only thing in the world you have left to believe , and the whole world is telling you that one was a lie , will always believe it .
cp09.32.2	pre-adv	The giving of it once was enough , even if that 's all the promise he ever gave or ever will give , and you believed it then and you will always believe it , even when it is finally the only thing in the world you have left to believe , and the whole world is telling you that one was a lie .
cp09.33.0	ref	Even when he is on the way to Memphis you will still have the promise resting inside you like a gift , and it is he inside of you .
cp09.33.1	pre-adv	You will still have the promise resting inside you like a gift even when he is on the way to Memphis , and it is he inside of you .
cp09.33.2	post-adj2	Even when he is on the way to Memphis you will still have the promise resting like a gift inside you , and it is he inside of you .
cp09.34.0	ref	And in a way the promise works out true , for whether he wants you or not , you go with him in your heart .
cp09.34.1	post-adv	For whether he wants you or not , you go with him in your heart , and in a way the promise works out true .
cp09.34.2	pre-adv	And in a way the promise works out true , for you go with him in your heart , whether he wants you or not .
cp09.34.3	post-adj2	And in a way the promise works out true , for whether he wants you or not , you go in your heart with him .
cp09.36.0	ref	You feel where he is and what he sees , and at night you feel when he is asleep or with the other woman , the one that never could love him the way you do , the one who got him because she did n't particularly give a damn whether she got him or did n't .
cp09.36.1	post-adv	You feel where he is and what he sees , and at night you feel when he is asleep or with the other woman , the one that never could love him the way you do , the one who because she did n't particularly give a damn whether she got him or did n't got him .
cp09.36.2	post-adv	You feel where he is and what he sees , and at night you feel when he is asleep or with the other woman , the one that never could love him the way you do , the one who got him because she whether she got him or did n't did n't particularly give a damn .
cp09.37.0	ref	And you know you will always wonder all of your life whether it was because you wanted him so bad that you did n't get him , and you can feel nearly sorry enough to cry when you think of that other guy , the chump who begged you to marry him , the one with the plastered hair and the car he could n't afford and the too-shiny shoes .
cp09.37.1	post-adv	And you know you will always wonder all of your life whether it was because you wanted him so bad that you did n't get him , and you when you think of that other guy , the chump who begged you to marry him , the one with the plastered hair and the car he could n't afford and the too-shiny shoes can feel nearly sorry enough to cry .
cp09.39.0	ref	It comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let you use him like you did when you could n't have Gratt Shafer ; that he must have since he was there like the radio for you to turn on or snap off when you got tired of him , that other guy .
cp09.39.1	post-adv	It comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let like you did you use him when you could n't have Gratt Shafer ; that he must have since he was there like the radio for you to turn on or snap off when you got tired of him , that other guy .
cp09.39.2	post-adv	It comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let when you could n't have Gratt Shafer you use him like you did ; that he must have since he was there like the radio for you to turn on or snap off when you got tired of him , that other guy .
cp09.39.3	post-adv	It comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let you use him like you did when you could n't have Gratt Shafer ; that he must since he was there like the radio for you to turn on or snap off when you got tired of him , that other guy have .
cp09.39.4	post-adv	It comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let you use him like you did when you could n't have Gratt Shafer ; that he must have since for you to turn on or snap off when you got tired of him , that other guy he was there like the radio .
cp09.39.5	post-adv	It comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let you use him like you did when you could n't have Gratt Shafer ; that he must have since he was there like the radio for you when you got tired of him , that other guy to turn on or snap off .
cp09.40.0	ref	It dawns on you that instead of a lump to fill the seat across the bridge table from you , he was a man , and that because Gratt Shafer was making you miserable , you were passing it down to him , to Gratt Shafer 's substitute , that other guy .
cp09.40.1	pre-adv	It dawns on you that instead of a lump to fill the seat across the bridge table from you , he was a man , and that you were passing it down to him , to Gratt Shafer 's substitute , that other guy , because Gratt Shafer was making you miserable .
cp09.41.0	ref	And you wonder if that is why the little man lost his job and his car and stayed drunk about a year before he straightened out and moved to St. Louis , where he got to be a big unhappy success .
cp09.41.1	post-adv	And you wonder if that is why the little man before he straightened out and moved to St. Louis , where he got to be a big unhappy success lost his job and his car and stayed drunk about a year .
cp09.42.0	ref	You wonder if he looks at his wife now and thinks of you .
cp09.42.1	post-adj2	You wonder if he looks now at his wife and thinks of you .
cp09.43.0	ref	You wonder about the Christmas card with no name on it , and it comes to you that maybe it would have been better to have made somebody else happy if you could n't be happy yourself , to give somebody else the one they wanted -- to give them you .
cp09.43.1	dat-np-np	You wonder about the Christmas card with no name on it , and it comes to you that maybe it would have been better to have made somebody else happy if you could n't be happy yourself , to give the one they wanted to somebody else -- to give them you .
cp09.43.2	dat-np-np	You wonder about the Christmas card with no name on it , and it comes to you that maybe it would have been better to have made somebody else happy if you could n't be happy yourself , to give somebody else the one they wanted -- to give you to them .
cp09.43.3	post-adv	You wonder about the Christmas card with no name on it , and it comes to you that maybe it would have been better to if you could n't be happy yourself have made somebody else happy , to give somebody else the one they wanted -- to give them you .
cp09.44.0	ref	`` Damn the world '' , she thought .
cp09.44.1	quote	`` Damn the world '' , thought she .
cp09.47.0	ref	Homes and factories and schools and a big wide federal highway , instead of peaceful corn to rest your eyes on while you tried to rest your heart , while you tried not to look at the balloon and the bandstand and the uniforms and the flash of the instruments .
cp09.47.1	post-adv	Homes and factories and schools and a big wide federal highway , instead of peaceful corn while you tried to rest your heart , while you tried not to look at the balloon and the bandstand and the uniforms and the flash of the instruments to rest your eyes on .
cp09.49.0	ref	The others , the ones in the stands , were spellbound , for hearing the mayor was for them like listening to a symphony was for sophisticated folks in New York City .
cp09.49.1	post-adv	The others , the ones in the stands , for hearing the mayor was for them like listening to a symphony was for sophisticated folks in New York City , were spellbound .
cp09.50.0	ref	It was like being in the concert hall in the afternoon and hearing the piano virtuoso rehearsing .
cp09.50.1	post-adj2	It was like being in the afternoon in the concert hall and hearing the piano virtuoso rehearsing .
cp09.53.0	ref	If a man was good , if he was going to be governor , you felt it and you wanted him to go on forever .
cp09.53.1	pre-adv	You felt it , if a man was good , if he was going to be governor , and you wanted him to go on forever .
cp09.54.0	ref	You were sorry when he finished talking because while he was up there you were someone else and the world was something else too .
cp09.54.1	post-adv	When he finished talking you were sorry because while he was up there you were someone else and the world was something else too .
cp09.54.2	post-adv	Because while he was up there you were someone else and the world was something else too you were sorry when he finished talking .
cp09.54.3	pre-adv	You were sorry when he finished talking because you were someone else , while he was up there , and the world was something else too .
cp09.57.0	ref	He hit the theme about dying to defend your country , and you were ready to do it right then , without a second thought .
cp09.57.1	post-adj2	He hit the theme about dying to defend your country , and you were ready to do it without a second thought , right then .
cp09.58.0	ref	While he talked you would n't trade being a West Tennessee farmer for being anything else in the whole damned world , no matter if it had n't , in six weeks , rained enough to wet a rat 's ass .
cp09.58.1	pre-adv	You would n't trade being a West Tennessee farmer for being anything else in the whole damned world , no matter if it had n't , in six weeks , rained enough to wet a rat 's ass while he talked .
cp09.58.2	post-adj2	While he talked you would n't trade being a West Tennessee farmer no matter if it had n't , in six weeks , rained enough to wet a rat 's ass , for being anything else in the whole damned world .
cp09.60.0	ref	`` I should have stayed at the store '' , she thought .
cp09.60.1	quote	`` I should have stayed at the store '' , thought she .
cp09.61.0	ref	Back at the Factory-to-You with the other old maids , back there she was the youngest clerk and she was thirty-four , which made her young enough to resent the usual ideal working conditions , like the unventilated toilet with the door you had to hold shut while you sat down .
cp09.61.1	post-adv	Back at the Factory-to-You with the other old maids , back there she was the youngest clerk and she was thirty-four , which made her young enough to resent the usual ideal working conditions , like the unventilated toilet with the door you had while you sat down to hold shut .
cp09.62.0	ref	There was no lock because Herman did n't allow a lock .
cp09.62.1	post-adv	Because Herman did n't allow a lock there was no lock .
cp09.64.0	ref	The toilet had n't had a sincere scrubbing in years and there were things written on the walls of the little boxed-in place because you could n't keep the public out -- entirely .
cp09.64.1	post-adv	The toilet had n't had a sincere scrubbing in years and because you could n't keep the public out -- entirely there were things written on the walls of the little boxed-in place .
cp09.66.0	ref	The two little bangs meant that he was getting impatient to have a crowd of customers waited on and that if he had to he would jerk open the door and drag out , by the opposite door handle which she would be clutching , whichever-the-hell clerk it was who thought she could waste so much store time on the pot .
cp09.66.1	pre-adv	The two little bangs meant that he was getting impatient to have a crowd of customers waited on and that he would jerk open the door and drag out , by the opposite door handle which she would be clutching , whichever-the-hell clerk it was who thought she could waste so much store time on the pot if he had to .
cp10.5.0	ref	I did book jackets and covers for paperback reprints : naked girls huddling in corners of dingy furnished rooms while at the doorway , daring the cops to take him , is the guy in shirt sleeves clutching a revolver .
cp10.5.1	post-adv	I did book jackets and covers for paperback reprints : while at the doorway , daring the cops to take him , is the guy in shirt sleeves clutching a revolver naked girls huddling in corners of dingy furnished rooms .
cp10.8.0	ref	I even ferreted out the materials from which shields were made -- linden wood covered with leather -- so I 'd get the light reflections accurate .
cp10.8.1	post-adv	So I 'd get the light reflections accurate I even ferreted out the materials from which shields were made -- linden wood covered with leather .
cp10.15.0	ref	In the end , I did the same old picture , the naked girl and the guy in the doorway , only I put a Lord Byron shirt on the guy , gave him a sword instead of a pistol , and painted in furniture from the stills of a costume movie .
cp10.15.1	dat-np-np	In the end , I did the same old picture , the naked girl and the guy in the doorway , only I put a Lord Byron shirt on the guy , gave a sword instead of a pistol to him , and painted in furniture from the stills of a costume movie .
cp10.17.0	ref	`` That 's authenticity '' , he said .
cp10.17.1	quote	`` That 's authenticity '' , said he .
cp10.24.0	ref	We used to kid him by saying he only painted that way because he was so nearsighted .
cp10.24.1	post-adv	We used to kid him by saying because he was so nearsighted he only painted that way .
cp10.25.0	ref	It may have been true for all I know , because his glasses were like the bottoms of milk bottles , but it did n't prevent the paintings from being exciting .
cp10.25.1	post-adv	It may , because his glasses were like the bottoms of milk bottles , have been true for all I know , but it did n't prevent the paintings from being exciting .
cp10.26.0	ref	He also had , at times , an uncanny absent-minded air like a sleepwalker ; he would look right through you while you were talking to him , and if you said , `` For Christ 's sake , Donald , you 've got Prussian blue all over your shirt '' , he would smile , and nod , and an hour later the paint would be all over his pants as well .
cp10.26.1	post-adv	He also had , at times , an uncanny absent-minded air like a sleepwalker ; he while you were talking to him would look right through you , and if you said , `` For Christ 's sake , Donald , you 've got Prussian blue all over your shirt '' , he would smile , and nod , and an hour later the paint would be all over his pants as well .
cp10.26.2	pre-adv	He also had , at times , an uncanny absent-minded air like a sleepwalker ; he would look right through you while you were talking to him , and he would smile , and nod , if you said , `` For Christ 's sake , Donald , you 've got Prussian blue all over your shirt '' , and an hour later the paint would be all over his pants as well .
cp10.27.0	ref	Mrs. Monmouth thought of him as her discovery , and she paid two to three hundred dollars for a painting .
cp10.27.1	post-adj2	Mrs. Monmouth thought as her discovery of him , and she paid two to three hundred dollars for a painting .
cp10.29.0	ref	We shared the expenses of the studio , and we all lived within walking distance of it , in cheap lodgings of one kind or another .
cp10.29.1	post-adj2	We shared the expenses of the studio , and we all lived in cheap lodgings of one kind or another , within walking distance of it .
cp10.30.0	ref	Attending the life class was my idea -- or rather , Askington 's idea , but I was ripe for it , and the other two would n't have gone if I had n't talked them into it .
cp10.30.1	post-adv	Attending the life class was my idea -- or rather , Askington 's idea , but I was ripe for it , and the other two would n't if I had n't talked them into it have gone .
cp10.33.0	ref	It was n't just the pressure of work , although that was the excuse I often used , even to myself .
cp10.33.1	post-adv	Although that was the excuse I often used , even to myself , it was n't just the pressure of work .
cp10.35.0	ref	I kept saying , `` If I could just build up a reputation for myself , make some real money , get to be well known as an illustrator -- like Peter Askington , for instance -- then I could take some time off and paint '' .
cp10.35.1	post-adv	I kept if I could just build up a reputation for myself , make some real money , get to be well known as an illustrator -- like Peter Askington , for instance -- saying , `` then I could take some time off and paint '' .
cp10.35.2	pre-adv	I kept saying , `` then I could take some time off and paint if I could just build up a reputation for myself , make some real money , get to be well known as an illustrator -- like Peter Askington , for instance '' .
cp10.36.0	ref	Askington was a kind of goal I set myself ; I had admired him long before I talked to him .
cp10.36.1	post-adv	Askington was a kind of goal I set myself ; I long before I talked to him had admired him .
cp10.39.0	ref	This set his tone : richness of texture and color , and another kind of richness as well , for his clothing and decorations would have paid the Brush-off 's rent for a year .
cp10.39.1	post-adv	For his clothing and decorations would have paid the Brush-off 's rent for a year , this set his tone : richness of texture and color , and another kind of richness as well .
cp10.41.0	ref	He did n't look like what I thought of as an old man , and his lively and erudite speech made him seem even younger .
cp10.41.1	post-adj2	He did n't look like what I thought as an old man of , and his lively and erudite speech made him seem even younger .
cp10.42.0	ref	He was one of the most prominent magazine illustrators in America ; you saw one of his paintings on the cover of one or another of the slick national magazines every month .
cp10.42.1	post-adj2	He was one of the most prominent magazine illustrators in America ; you saw one of his paintings every month on the cover of one or another of the slick national magazines .
cp10.47.0	ref	Like certain expensive restaurants , just sitting there gave you the illusion of being wealthy yourself .
cp10.47.1	dat-np-np	Like certain expensive restaurants , just sitting there gave the illusion of being wealthy yourself to you .
cp10.50.0	ref	`` No , I take classes with different people '' , he said .
cp10.50.1	quote	`` No , I take classes with different people '' , said he .
cp10.52.0	ref	Besides , it 's important to the way a painter thinks that he should move in a certain atmosphere , an atmosphere in which he may absorb the ideas of other masters , as Durer went to Italy to meet Bellini and Mantegna '' .
cp10.52.1	post-adv	Besides , it 's important to the way a painter thinks that he should move in a certain atmosphere , an atmosphere in which he , as Durer went to Italy to meet Bellini and Mantegna , may absorb the ideas of other masters '' .
cp10.64.0	ref	`` I 'm studying anatomy with Burns '' , he replied .
cp10.64.1	quote	`` I 'm studying anatomy with Burns '' , replied he .
cp10.68.0	ref	I had studied with Burns ten years before , during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street .
cp10.68.1	post-adj3	I had studied ten years before with Burns , during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street .
cp10.68.2	post-adj3	I had studied during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street ten years before , with Burns .
cp10.68.3	post-adj3	I had studied with Burns during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street , ten years before .
cp10.68.4	post-adj3	I had studied , during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street , with Burns ten years before .
cp10.68.5	post-adj3	I had studied ten years before , during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street with Burns .
cp10.74.0	ref	I went to a retrospective of his work when I was eighteen , and I thought he was a contemporary of Cezanne 's '' .
cp10.74.1	post-adv	When I was eighteen I went to a retrospective of his work , and I thought he was a contemporary of Cezanne 's '' .
cp10.80.0	ref	I 've always admired him , and when I heard he was taking a few pupils , I went to him and joined his class '' .
cp10.80.1	pre-adv	I 've always admired him , and I went to him and joined his class , when I heard he was taking a few pupils '' .
cp10.81.0	ref	`` Yes , it sounds great '' , I said , `` but suppose you do n't think of yourself as an impressionist painter '' ?
cp10.81.1	post-adj2	`` Yes , it sounds great '' , I said , `` but suppose you do n't think as an impressionist painter of yourself '' ?
cp10.82.0	ref	`` You 're missing the point '' , he said .
cp10.82.1	quote	`` You 're missing the point '' , said he .
cp10.94.0	ref	But look at us today !
cp10.94.1	post-adj2	But look today at us !
cp10.95.0	ref	We hold safe little jobs illustrating tooth-paste ads or the salacious incidents in trivial novels , and most of our easel painting is nothing but picking the fluff out of the navel so it can be contemplated in greater purity .
cp10.95.1	post-adv	We hold safe little jobs illustrating tooth-paste ads or the salacious incidents in trivial novels , and most of our easel painting is nothing but so it can be contemplated in greater purity picking the fluff out of the navel .
cp10.99.0	ref	The upshot of the evening was that I got the address of Pendleton 's studio -- or rather , of the studio in which he gave his classes , for he did n't work there himself -- and joined the life class , which met every Tuesday and Thursday from ten to twelve in the morning .
cp10.99.1	post-adv	The upshot of the evening was that I for he did n't work there himself got the address of Pendleton 's studio -- or rather , of the studio in which he gave his classes -- and joined the life class , which met every Tuesday and Thursday from ten to twelve in the morning .
cp10.100.0	ref	It was an awkward hour , but I did n't have to punch any time clock , and it only meant that sometimes I had to stay a couple of hours later at the drawing board to finish up a job .
cp10.100.1	post-adj2	It was an awkward hour , but I did n't have to punch any time clock , and it only meant that sometimes I had to stay at the drawing board a couple of hours later to finish up a job .
cp10.101.0	ref	After a short time , both George and Donald joined the class with me so they would n't feel lonely , and we used to hang a sign on the door of the Brush-off reading out to work .
cp10.101.1	post-adv	After a short time , so they would n't feel lonely both George and Donald joined the class with me , and we used to hang a sign on the door of the Brush-off reading out to work .
cp10.102.0	ref	It was mostly for the benefit of the mailman , because hardly anybody else ever visited us .
cp10.102.1	post-adv	Because hardly anybody else ever visited us , it was mostly for the benefit of the mailman .
cp11.4.0	ref	`` Via must have it '' , I answered readily enough , recalling her last visit .
cp11.4.1	quote	`` Via must have it '' , answered I readily enough , recalling her last visit .
cp11.11.0	ref	`` I 'm sure she 'd turn it over to you , if you 'd rather .
cp11.11.1	post-adv	`` I 'm sure she , if you 'd rather , 'd turn it over to you .
cp11.14.0	ref	`` She must have taken the registration when she went to Walter 's .
cp11.14.1	post-adv	`` She must when she went to Walter 's have taken the registration .
cp11.19.0	ref	Walter was giving me checks for my pay , the household bills .
cp11.19.1	dat-np-np	Walter was giving checks to me for my pay , the household bills .
cp11.21.0	ref	`` What a fool I 've been '' , she said quietly .
cp11.21.1	quote	`` What a fool I 've been '' , said she quietly .
cp11.26.0	ref	If I am not to be Mrs. Salter I am nothing '' .
cp11.26.1	pre-adv	I am nothing , if I am not to be Mrs. Salter '' .
cp11.30.0	ref	I made a lemon sponge , a light dessert , roasted a chicken , parboiled some frozen vegetables , so there would be something nice in the icebox for the weekend .
cp11.30.1	post-adv	I , so there would be something nice in the icebox for the weekend , made a lemon sponge , a light dessert , roasted a chicken , parboiled some frozen vegetables .
cp11.30.2	post-adj2	I made a lemon sponge , a light dessert , roasted a chicken , parboiled some frozen vegetables , so there would be something nice for the weekend in the icebox .
cp11.35.0	ref	I felt more cheerful , as if I had had a part in bringing her through to a greater tolerance of herself .
cp11.35.1	post-adv	As if I had had a part in bringing her through to a greater tolerance of herself , I felt more cheerful .
cp11.36.0	ref	And I went back to my own cottage to live my own little patch of life .
cp11.36.1	post-adj2	And I went to my own cottage back to live my own little patch of life .
cp11.37.0	ref	It was foggy that evening , but the path to my house was so well grooved that I could feel my way , accustomed as I was to the dense mists that rise from the sun-warmed palisades of the river and sometimes last for days .
cp11.37.1	post-adv	It was foggy that evening , but the path to my house was so well grooved that I could feel my way , as I was accustomed to the dense mists that rise from the sun-warmed palisades of the river and sometimes last for days .
cp11.38.0	ref	In the morning the fog was still thick so that to go to the village I crept along with my headlights full on .
cp11.38.1	post-adv	So that to go to the village I crept along with my headlights full on in the morning the fog was still thick .
cp11.39.0	ref	I did notice a twinkle of light from the big house through the woods but as I had left a light on in my own house because of the fog I assumed Mrs. Salter had done the same before she left for town .
cp11.39.1	post-adv	I did notice a twinkle of light from the big house through the woods but as I had left a light on in my own house because of the fog I assumed Mrs. Salter before she left for town had done the same .
cp11.39.2	pre-adv	I did notice a twinkle of light from the big house through the woods but I assumed Mrs. Salter had done the same before she left for town as I had left a light on in my own house because of the fog .
cp11.39.3	post-adj2	I did notice a twinkle of light through the woods from the big house but as I had left a light on in my own house because of the fog I assumed Mrs. Salter had done the same before she left for town .
cp11.40.0	ref	I did my shopping , had my dentist appointment , and from there I went to the women 's lunch at our parish church where we discussed plans for the annual Christmas bazaar , so that dusk was beginning to gather when I drove home in the late afternoon .
cp11.40.1	post-adv	I did my shopping , had my dentist appointment , and , so that dusk was beginning to gather when I drove home in the late afternoon , from there I went to the women 's lunch at our parish church where we discussed plans for the annual Christmas bazaar .
cp11.40.2	post-adv	I did my shopping , had my dentist appointment , and from there I went to the women 's lunch at our parish church where we discussed plans for the annual Christmas bazaar , so that dusk when I drove home in the late afternoon was beginning to gather .
cp11.44.0	ref	When I came back from church at noon Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway .
cp11.44.1	pre-adv	Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway when I came back from church at noon .
cp11.44.2	post-adj3	When I came from church back at noon Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway .
cp11.44.3	post-adj3	When I came at noon from church back Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway .
cp11.44.4	post-adj3	When I came back at noon from church Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway .
cp11.44.5	post-adj3	When I came at noon back from church Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway .
cp11.44.6	post-adj3	When I came from church at noon back Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway .
cp11.46.0	ref	Dolly Engisch was waiting there on the steps and she came running toward us .
cp11.46.1	post-adj2	Dolly Engisch was waiting on the steps there and she came running toward us .
cp11.47.0	ref	`` She 's nowhere , nowhere '' ! She screamed , and both women ran up to the house , and I followed .
cp11.47.1	quote	`` She 's nowhere , nowhere '' ! screamed she , and both women ran up to the house , and I followed .
cp11.49.0	ref	Everything was as I had left it the night before last -- her portfolio and bag for town , her lingerie and dress and shoes laid out only her mink coat was missing .
cp11.49.1	dat-np-np	Everything was as I had left the night before last to it -- her portfolio and bag for town , her lingerie and dress and shoes laid out only her mink coat was missing .
cp11.54.0	ref	And when they spoke they spoke to each other and not to me .
cp11.54.1	pre-adv	And they spoke to each other and not to me when they spoke .
cp11.55.0	ref	And after I brought them sandwiches and coffee I had to go back to my place in the kitchen and wait .
cp11.55.1	dat-np-np	And after I brought sandwiches and coffee to them I had to go back to my place in the kitchen and wait .
cp11.55.2	pre-adv	And I had to go back to my place in the kitchen and wait after I brought them sandwiches and coffee .
cp11.55.3	post-adj2	And after I brought them sandwiches and coffee I had to go to my place in the kitchen back and wait .
cp11.57.0	ref	`` If I am not to be Mrs. Salter then I am nothing '' .
cp11.57.1	pre-adv	Then I am nothing `` if I am not to be Mrs. Salter '' .
cp11.59.0	ref	And when she returned from taking her guests back to New York she had said , `` All they talked about was Harvie Harvie this , Harvie that
cp11.59.1	pre-adv	And she had said , `` All they talked about was Harvie Harvie this , Harvie that when she returned from taking her guests back to New York
cp11.61.0	ref	And then I remembered a few years before after their return from a short trip to Rome I had heard her boast , over and over again , `` On the boat people liked me for myself '' .
cp11.61.1	post-adj2	And then I remembered after their return from a short trip to Rome a few years before I had heard her boast , over and over again , `` On the boat people liked me for myself '' .
cp11.62.0	ref	I had made a habit of calling her at night from my cottage , just to check .
cp11.62.1	post-adj2	I had made a habit of calling her from my cottage at night , just to check .
cp11.66.0	ref	Then was it a final desperate plea from her , to whom ? Hanging on and on past any man 's patience some final stab of conclusion ?
cp11.66.1	post-adj2	Then was it a final desperate plea from her , to whom ? Hanging past any man 's patience on and on some final stab of conclusion ?
cp11.67.0	ref	She was found the day after at the bottom of the cliff .
cp11.67.1	post-adj2	She was found at the bottom of the cliff the day after .
cp11.68.0	ref	I tried to believe that what must have happened was that , restless , disturbed by this telephone call or whatever , she walked out in the night , as she had a habit of doing .
cp11.68.1	post-adv	I tried to believe that what must have happened was that , as she had a habit of doing , restless , disturbed by this telephone call or whatever , she walked out in the night .
cp11.69.0	ref	Sometimes she took the path that winds up around my cottage to the walk at the edge of the cliff .
cp11.69.1	post-adj2	Sometimes she took the path that winds up to the walk at the edge of the cliff around my cottage .
cp11.73.0	ref	When a fisherman brought her up in his arms , still , small , as if she were a child asleep , I began to shudder with a terrible excitement , almost triumphant , that I still can not account for .
cp11.73.1	post-adv	When as if she were a child asleep a fisherman brought her up in his arms , still , small , I began to shudder with a terrible excitement , almost triumphant , that I still can not account for .
cp11.73.2	pre-adv	I began to shudder with a terrible excitement , almost triumphant , that I still can not account for , when a fisherman brought her up in his arms , still , small , as if she were a child asleep .
cp11.81.0	ref	At the same time that I thought I understood her at long last and pitied her , underneath this knowing had there burned unquenched by my pity a fire of hate , an enduring envy that burst out in that ghastly outcry ?
cp11.81.1	pre-adj2	Underneath this knowing , at the same time that I thought I understood her at long last and pitied her had there burned unquenched by my pity a fire of hate , an enduring envy that burst out in that ghastly outcry ?
cp11.85.0	ref	At the time I was filled with self-pity at this separation , but in the years since I have come to understand that the sight of me was painful to them after that outcry .
cp11.85.1	post-adj2	At the time I was filled at this separation with self-pity , but in the years since I have come to understand that the sight of me was painful to them after that outcry .
cp11.86.0	ref	In my person they would always remember that last long time of me alone with her , so if they told themselves that I could have prevented it , I can understand that by now and love them still , because everyone must justify , have a scapegoat for what is not to be borne .
cp11.86.1	post-adv	In my person they would always remember that last long time of me alone with her , so if they told themselves that I could have prevented it , I , because everyone must justify , have a scapegoat for what is not to be borne , can understand that by now and love them still .
cp11.86.2	pre-adv	In my person they would always remember that last long time of me alone with her , so I can understand that by now and love them still , because everyone must justify , have a scapegoat for what is not to be borne , if they told themselves that I could have prevented it .
cp11.87.0	ref	It is not their avoidance that rankles ; it is when I meet someone who was a close friend of the family , and therefore of mine , and they nod to me so coolly and walk away , that it hurts .
cp11.87.1	post-adj2	It is not their avoidance that rankles ; it is when I meet someone who was a close friend of the family , and therefore of mine , and they nod so coolly to me and walk away , that it hurts .
cp11.88.0	ref	I could tell them , but no one ever asked , why I had cried out so triumphantly at the sight of her body .
cp11.88.1	post-adj2	I could tell them , but no one ever asked , why I had cried out at the sight of her body so triumphantly .
cp11.89.0	ref	No , I forget Mrs. Mathias , who had been away visiting a married daughter when it happened .
cp11.89.1	post-adv	No , I forget Mrs. Mathias , who when it happened had been away visiting a married daughter .
cp11.91.0	ref	`` We all feel guilty '' , I turned away from her coldly .
cp11.91.1	post-adj3	`` We all feel guilty '' , I turned from her away coldly .
cp11.91.2	post-adj3	`` We all feel guilty '' , I turned coldly from her away .
cp11.91.3	post-adj3	`` We all feel guilty '' , I turned away coldly from her .
cp11.91.4	post-adj3	`` We all feel guilty '' , I turned coldly away from her .
cp11.91.5	post-adj3	`` We all feel guilty '' , I turned from her coldly away .
cp11.98.0	ref	But suppose she had not taken Mrs. Mathias ' advice and lived on like thousands of women in towns , dispossessed of love , hanging on to makeshifts , and altogether and finally arid .
cp11.98.1	post-adj2	But suppose she had not taken Mrs. Mathias ' advice and lived like thousands of women in towns , dispossessed of love , hanging on to makeshifts , and altogether and finally arid on .
cp11.100.0	ref	If they say I could have stopped her it is because they are ignorant of her last weeks of self-examination , her search into herself and its conclusions .
cp11.100.1	pre-adv	It is because they are ignorant of her last weeks of self-examination , her search into herself and its conclusions if they say I could have stopped her .
cp11.102.0	ref	She was finally at rest in truth , of her own proud free choice .
cp11.102.1	post-adj3	She was in truth at rest finally , of her own proud free choice .
cp11.102.2	post-adj3	She was of her own proud free choice at rest in truth , finally .
cp11.102.3	post-adj3	She was finally at rest of her own proud free choice , in truth .
cp11.102.4	post-adj3	She was , of her own proud free choice , finally at rest in truth .
cp11.102.5	post-adj3	She was at rest in truth , of her own proud free choice finally .
cp11.105.0	ref	The funeral service was in the house , the Methodist minister , how clean and glistening his eyeglasses and his neat body standing beside that coffin with that doll inside , a stranger speaking to strangers the old sacred words , and the rain drumming incessantly in accompaniment , seven days of relentless rain that turned the ground to mud so the burial had to be postponed .
cp11.105.1	post-adv	The funeral service was in the house , the Methodist minister , how clean and glistening his eyeglasses and his neat body standing beside that coffin with that doll inside , a stranger speaking to strangers the old sacred words , and the rain drumming incessantly in accompaniment , seven days of relentless rain that so the burial had to be postponed turned the ground to mud .
cp11.105.2	post-adj2	The funeral service was in the house , the Methodist minister , how clean and glistening his eyeglasses and his neat body standing with that doll inside beside that coffin , a stranger speaking to strangers the old sacred words , and the rain drumming incessantly in accompaniment , seven days of relentless rain that turned the ground to mud so the burial had to be postponed .
cp11.107.0	ref	Then Via called to say they had decided to cremate her -- as they had Ellen , the thought leaped to my mind -- and did I want to meet her at the funeral home the next morning .
cp11.107.1	pre-adv	Then Via called to say they had decided to cremate her -- the thought leaped to my mind , as they had Ellen -- and did I want to meet her at the funeral home the next morning .
cp11.108.0	ref	The coffin stood on trestles in a corner of the long low dimly lit funeral parlor , on its dark shining surface the sheaf of white roses I had ordered .
cp11.108.1	post-adj2	The coffin stood in a corner of the long low dimly lit funeral parlor on trestles , on its dark shining surface the sheaf of white roses I had ordered .
cp11.109.0	ref	I knelt , just for decency I thought at the time , but found myself whispering , `` Our Father which Art in Heaven '' And it was only after that that something unlocked in me and I felt a grief .
cp11.109.1	post-adj2	I knelt , for decency just I thought at the time , but found myself whispering , `` Our Father which Art in Heaven '' And it was only after that that something unlocked in me and I felt a grief .
cp11.110.0	ref	Via was in the parking lot when I went outside .
cp11.110.1	post-adv	When I went outside Via was in the parking lot .
cp11.111.0	ref	Together we waited in her car until the hearse moved out and we followed it down into the heavy traffic of New Jersey .
cp11.111.1	post-adv	Together until the hearse moved out we waited in her car and we followed it down into the heavy traffic of New Jersey .
cp11.114.0	ref	Something would come into her heart if nothing else the sounds of Bach would give her some healing .
cp11.114.1	dat-np-np	Something would come into her heart if nothing else the sounds of Bach would give some healing to her .
cp11.114.2	pre-adv	Something would come into her heart the sounds of Bach would give her some healing if nothing else .
cp12.3.0	ref	`` Uhhu '' , she said , hardly listening as she studied her left eyelid .
cp12.3.1	post-adv	As she studied her left eyelid `` uhhu '' , she said , hardly listening .
cp12.6.0	ref	`` I 'm not a man who has many close intimate friends , Carla '' , he said , wanting her to know all about him .
cp12.6.1	quote	`` I 'm not a man who has many close intimate friends , Carla '' , said , wanting he her to know all about him .
cp12.17.0	ref	`` Somehow I imagine that as you grew up you were alone a lot .
cp12.17.1	pre-adv	`` Somehow I imagine that you were alone a lot , as you grew up .
cp12.20.0	ref	When she had wiped some of the lipstick from her mouth , she stared solemnly at her image in the mirror .
cp12.20.1	pre-adv	She stared solemnly at her image in the mirror , when she had wiped some of the lipstick from her mouth .
cp12.21.0	ref	`` Are your people still alive '' ? He asked , trying to touch a part of her life Alberto had n't discussed ; so he could have something of her for himself .
cp12.21.1	post-adv	`` Are your people still alive '' ? He asked , so he could have something of her for himself trying to touch a part of her life Alberto had n't discussed .
cp12.22.0	ref	`` You talk so well , Carla '' , he went on .
cp12.22.1	quote	`` You talk so well , Carla '' , went he on .
cp12.23.0	ref	`` You seem to have read so much , you have a natural gift for words '' , he added , trying to flatter her vanity .
cp12.23.1	quote	`` You seem to have read so much , you have a natural gift for words '' , added , trying he to flatter her vanity .
cp12.32.0	ref	Would you be happier if I made up some stories about my life , told you some lies ?
cp12.32.1	dat-np-np	Would you be happier if I made up some stories about my life , told some lies to you ?
cp12.32.2	post-adv	If I made up some stories about my life , told you some lies would you be happier ?
cp12.39.0	ref	Would he have to clean up after her every day , clean the kitchen , the bathroom , and get down on his knees and scrub the kitchen floor , then hang up her dresses , pick up her stockings , make the bed while she lay around ?
cp12.39.1	post-adj2	Would he have to clean up every day after her , clean the kitchen , the bathroom , and get down on his knees and scrub the kitchen floor , then hang up her dresses , pick up her stockings , make the bed while she lay around ?
cp12.41.0	ref	If he dwelt on the indignities he suffered he would lose all respect for her , and without the respect he might lose his view of her , too .
cp12.41.1	pre-adv	He would lose all respect for her if he dwelt on the indignities he suffered , and without the respect he might lose his view of her , too .
cp12.55.0	ref	`` I 'll get an elegant pair of thin-soled Italian shoes tomorrow , Carla '' .
cp12.55.1	dat-np-np	`` I 'll get tomorrow to an elegant pair of thin-soled Italian shoes , Carla '' .
cp12.56.0	ref	`` And I do n't know why you want to go on wearing that outfit '' , she said , making a face .
cp12.56.1	quote	`` And I do n't know why you want to go on wearing that outfit '' , said , making she a face .
cp12.62.0	ref	`` I do n't mind at all '' , he said , delighted with her attention .
cp12.62.1	quote	`` I do n't mind at all '' , said , delighted he with her attention .
cp12.64.0	ref	But it was a hopeful sign , he told himself .
cp12.64.1	quote	But it was a hopeful sign , told he himself .
cp12.70.0	ref	`` There 's a church you should see '' , she said .
cp12.70.1	quote	`` There 's a church you should see '' , said she .
cp12.71.0	ref	And when they stood by the fountain in the piazza looking at Santa Maria he had to keep a straight face , not letting on he had been there with Alberto .
cp12.71.1	pre-adv	And he had to keep a straight face , not letting on he had been there with Alberto when they stood by the fountain in the piazza looking at Santa Maria .
cp12.71.2	post-adj2	And when they stood in the piazza by the fountain looking at Santa Maria he had to keep a straight face , not letting on he had been there with Alberto .
cp12.72.0	ref	He let her tell him all about the church .
cp12.72.1	dat-np-np	He let her tell all about the church to him .
cp12.75.0	ref	When they got home at midnight she was tired out .
cp12.75.1	pre-adv	She was tired out when they got home at midnight .
cp12.75.2	post-adj2	When they got at midnight home she was tired out .
cp12.76.0	ref	And in the morning when he woke up at ten the church bells were ringing .
cp12.76.1	pre-adv	And in the morning the church bells were ringing when he woke up at ten .
cp12.76.2	post-adj2	And in the morning when he woke at ten up the church bells were ringing .
cp12.77.0	ref	He had never heard so many bells , and as he lay there listening , he thought of her scolding him for his remarks when he had looked up at the obelisk and the church at the top of the Spanish Steps .
cp12.77.1	post-adv	He had never heard so many bells , and as he lay there listening , he thought of when he had looked up at the obelisk and the church at the top of the Spanish Steps her scolding him for his remarks .
cp12.77.2	pre-adv	He had never heard so many bells , and he thought of her scolding him for his remarks when he had looked up at the obelisk and the church at the top of the Spanish Steps , as he lay there listening .
cp12.78.0	ref	It was a good thing that she clung to her religion , he thought .
cp12.78.1	quote	It was a good thing that she clung to her religion , thought he .
cp12.82.0	ref	Are n't you going out to mass ?
cp12.82.1	post-adj2	Are n't you going to mass out ?
cp12.86.0	ref	`` I think I 'll sleep in this morning '' , she said drowsily , and as she snuggled against him , he wondered if she ever went to church .
cp12.86.1	quote	`` I think I 'll sleep in this morning '' , said she drowsily , and as she snuggled against him , he wondered if she ever went to church .
cp12.86.2	pre-adv	`` I think I 'll sleep in this morning '' , she said drowsily , and he wondered if she ever went to church , as she snuggled against him .
cp12.92.0	ref	She would have been better off if she had stuck to her Bible .
cp12.92.1	post-adv	She would if she had stuck to her Bible have been better off .
cp12.101.0	ref	What was the matter with him that they all wearied him ?
cp12.101.1	post-adv	What that they all wearied him was the matter with him ?
cp12.103.0	ref	All the ideologies changing from day to day , right under his eyes , so how could a man look to any one of them for an enlargement of his freedom ?
cp12.103.1	post-adj2	All the ideologies changing right under his eyes , from day to day , so how could a man look to any one of them for an enlargement of his freedom ?
cp12.107.0	ref	Just the same , he thought , pondering over it , it would be a good thing for a girl like Carla if she got up and went to church .
cp12.107.1	post-adv	Just the same , he thought , pondering over it , it if she got up and went to church would be a good thing for a girl like Carla .
cp12.108.0	ref	A half hour later he got her up to go out for breakfast so the Ferraros , hearing them hurrying down the stairs , would think they were going to a late mass .
cp12.108.1	post-adj2	A half hour later he got her up to go for breakfast out so the Ferraros , hearing them hurrying down the stairs , would think they were going to a late mass .
cp12.109.0	ref	It seemed to him that if the Ferraros felt sure of them , could place them , it would help him to feel more sure of himself with Carla .
cp12.109.1	pre-adv	It seemed to him that it would help him to feel more sure of himself with Carla if the Ferraros felt sure of them , could place them .
cp12.110.0	ref	`` Since we 're having coffee with them this afternoon '' , he said , `` I think I 'll ask the daughter if we can pay her to come in every day to clean for us '' .
cp12.110.1	pre-adv	He said `` since we 're having coffee with them this afternoon '' , `` I think I 'll ask the daughter if we can pay her to come in every day to clean for us '' .
cp12.110.2	post-adj2	`` Since we 're having coffee this afternoon with them '' , he said , `` I think I 'll ask the daughter if we can pay her to come in every day to clean for us '' .
cp12.111.0	ref	And he waited for her to say , `` Oh , no , I can do it , Sam .
cp12.111.1	dat-np-np	And he waited for her to say , `` Oh , no , I can do Sam , to it .
cp12.116.0	ref	Let 's be fine superior people of great dignity '' , he said as if he were joking .
cp12.116.1	post-adv	As if he were joking let 's be fine superior people of great dignity '' , he said .
cp12.117.0	ref	`` If you find it necessary , Sam , go ahead '' , she said , turning on the stair .
cp12.117.1	pre-adv	`` Go ahead if you find it necessary , Sam '' , she said , turning on the stair .
cp12.122.0	ref	When they walked into the Ferraro apartment , the old lady , bowing and smiling , said softly . `` Ciao '' and put out her hand .
cp12.122.1	pre-adv	The old lady , bowing and smiling , said softly . `` Ciao '' and put out her hand , when they walked into the Ferraro apartment .
cp12.126.0	ref	The Ferraros offered them biscuits with the coffee .
cp12.126.1	dat-np-np	The Ferraros offered biscuits to them with the coffee .
cp12.127.0	ref	Acting only as interpreter Carla , her hands folded on her lap , was utterly impersonal .
cp12.127.1	post-adj2	Acting as interpreter only Carla , her hands folded on her lap , was utterly impersonal .
cp12.129.0	ref	Watching her , he felt like a spectator at a tennis game , with the ball being bounced back and forth .
cp12.129.1	post-adj2	Watching her , he felt with the ball being bounced back and forth , like a spectator at a tennis game .
cp12.133.0	ref	For a year the boy had lived in the bush in a boxcar .
cp12.133.1	post-adj2	For a year the boy had lived in a boxcar in the bush .
cp12.134.0	ref	Did many of Sam 's countrymen live in boxcars in the bush ?
cp12.134.1	post-adj2	Did many of Sam 's countrymen live in the bush in boxcars ?
cp12.147.0	ref	The Holy Father would die soon , she said to Carla , so she could translate for Sam , although he had a brilliant doctor , a man who did not need the assistance of those doctors offered by the great rulers of the world .
cp12.147.1	post-adv	So she could translate for Sam , the Holy Father would die soon , she said to Carla although he had a brilliant doctor , a man who did not need the assistance of those doctors offered by the great rulers of the world .
cp12.147.2	post-adv	Although he had a brilliant doctor , a man who did not need the assistance of those doctors offered by the great rulers of the world , the Holy Father would die soon , she said to Carla , so she could translate for Sam .
cp12.147.3	quote	The Holy Father would die soon , said she to Carla , so she could translate for Sam , although he had a brilliant doctor , a man who did not need the assistance of those doctors offered by the great rulers of the world .
cp12.149.0	ref	No , he was indeed a saint now .
cp12.149.1	post-adj2	No , he was now a saint indeed .
cp12.153.0	ref	There would be changes made , and Signor Raymond should understand that when the Pope died it was like the end of a regime in Rome .
cp12.153.1	pre-adv	There would be changes made , and Signor Raymond should understand that it was like the end of a regime in Rome when the Pope died .
cp12.156.0	ref	Indeed he did , Sam said solemnly , trying to get Carla 's eye .
cp12.156.1	quote	Indeed he did , said solemnly , trying Sam to get Carla 's eye .
cp12.157.0	ref	Surely she could see that these women were her Italians , too , he thought .
cp12.157.1	quote	Surely she could see that these women were her Italians , too , thought he .
cp12.159.0	ref	But Carla 's eyes were on Agnese whose glowing face and softening eyes gave her a look of warmth and happiness .
cp12.159.1	dat-np-np	But Carla 's eyes were on Agnese whose glowing face and softening eyes gave a look of warmth and happiness to her .
cp12.162.0	ref	It 's like a flame , I guess '' , she said in a dreamy tone .
cp12.162.1	quote	It 's like a flame , guess I '' , she said in a dreamy tone .
cp12.162.2	quote	It 's like a flame , I guess '' , said she in a dreamy tone .
cp13.3.0	ref	He saw her emerge suddenly , coming in her unhesitant fashion , her back stiff , her head erect , facing with contempt the night and whatever she would encounter , as if in her extreme disdain and indifference she would pass by all the outraged looks of those whom she might approach .
cp13.3.1	post-adv	He saw her emerge suddenly , coming in her unhesitant fashion , her back stiff , her head erect , as if in her extreme disdain and indifference she would pass by all the outraged looks of those whom she might approach , facing with contempt the night and whatever she would encounter .
cp13.8.0	ref	Going , he saw as often before some queer , hideous yellow face over his head , shining and weird like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs .
cp13.8.1	post-adv	Going , he saw as often before some queer , hideous yellow face over his head , shining and weird like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs appear sometimes near the eyeballs .
cp13.8.2	post-adj3	Going , he saw over his head some queer , hideous yellow face as often before , shining and weird like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs .
cp13.8.3	post-adj3	Going , he saw like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs some queer , hideous yellow face over his head , shining and weird as often before .
cp13.8.4	post-adj3	Going , he saw as often before some queer , hideous yellow face like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs , shining and weird over his head .
cp13.8.5	post-adj3	Going , he saw like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs as often before some queer , hideous yellow face over his head , shining and weird .
cp13.8.6	post-adj3	Going , he saw some queer , hideous yellow face over his head , shining and weird like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs as often before .
cp13.12.0	ref	Yet she did not hesitate and only turned slightly , her neck tall as she looked in his direction , and continued on her way toward the end of the camp .
cp13.12.1	post-adv	As she looked in his direction , and continued on her way toward the end of the camp yet she did not hesitate and only turned slightly , her neck tall .
cp13.15.0	ref	Standing there she saw Shades of Night come through the trees and stop beside the lodge , silent , almost imperious , her body taut , simply standing without speaking or moving while the wife of Walitzee waited , perhaps denying the dread that moved in her .
cp13.15.1	post-adv	Standing there she saw Shades of Night come through the trees and stop beside the lodge , silent , almost imperious , her body taut , while the wife of Walitzee waited , perhaps denying the dread that moved in her simply standing without speaking or moving .
cp13.16.0	ref	When at last she could suffer the insult no longer , nor face the girl 's scorn , she said in a voice overloud : `` I shall call your father !
cp13.16.1	pre-adv	She said in a voice overloud : `` I shall call your father , when at last she could suffer the insult no longer , nor face the girl 's scorn !
cp13.17.0	ref	Go back where you can bring no harm , or I will go and get the old man from his bed so he can see your shame '' !
cp13.17.1	post-adv	Go back where you can bring no harm , or I so he can see your shame will go and get the old man from his bed '' !
cp13.23.0	ref	`` You bring only wickedness '' , she said and it was not to a child any longer but to another woman who had come to skirt her lodge with the cunning hunger of a wild animal .
cp13.23.1	quote	`` You bring only wickedness '' , said she and it was not to a child any longer but to another woman who had come to skirt her lodge with the cunning hunger of a wild animal .
cp13.30.0	ref	The other women had come close now , their voices murmuring together until they stood buzzing in an angry knot , their threats mingling , rising , nagging at each other , each trying to make her indignation and anger felt .
cp13.30.1	post-adv	The other women until they stood buzzing in an angry knot , their threats mingling , rising , nagging at each other , each trying to make her indignation and anger felt had come close now , their voices murmuring together .
cp13.30.2	post-adj2	The other women had come now close , their voices murmuring together until they stood buzzing in an angry knot , their threats mingling , rising , nagging at each other , each trying to make her indignation and anger felt .
cp13.32.0	ref	The sticks fell like a shower around her and she felt them sting her flesh and send tiny points of pain along her thighs .
cp13.32.1	post-adj2	The sticks fell around her like a shower and she felt them sting her flesh and send tiny points of pain along her thighs .
cp13.33.0	ref	They were all shouting at her as if she were the embodiment of the evil she brought .
cp13.33.1	post-adv	They as if she were the embodiment of the evil she brought were all shouting at her .
cp13.35.0	ref	`` Go back to your lodges '' ! He shouted .
cp13.35.1	post-adj2	`` Go to your lodges back '' ! He shouted .
cp13.37.0	ref	He made the long whip sing and snap around their heads so that they ran screaming , some tripping over themselves in their flight .
cp13.37.1	post-adv	He made so that they ran screaming , some tripping over themselves in their flight the long whip sing and snap around their heads .
cp13.38.0	ref	And Early Spring seized the whip and said : `` If you must flog someone , let it be her , your daughter .
cp13.38.1	post-adv	And Early Spring , if you must flog someone , seized the whip and said : `` let it be her , your daughter .
cp13.38.2	pre-adv	And Early Spring seized the whip and said : `` let it be her , your daughter , if you must flog someone .
cp13.42.0	ref	`` Go back to that double-married man of yours who so parades his fine body among the young women .
cp13.42.1	post-adj2	`` Go to that double-married man of yours who so parades his fine body among the young women back .
cp13.43.0	ref	Keep him back , if you must tell me what to do .
cp13.43.1	post-adv	If you must tell me what to do , keep him back .
cp13.54.0	ref	And , shoving her against a spruce , her back to him , he retreated with the whip and made it whine and crack in the damp air , shortening its arc until it narrowed to her flesh and the sound of it snarled and cracked , settling its own cruel demons on her shoulders while she stood as unchanged , as dark and motionless as ever , her eyes open and staring at the pale delineaments of the bark so close to her face .
cp13.54.1	post-adv	And , shoving her against a spruce , her back to him , he retreated with the whip and made it whine and crack in the damp air , until it narrowed to her flesh and the sound of it snarled and cracked , settling its own cruel demons on her shoulders while she stood as unchanged , as dark and motionless as ever , her eyes open and staring at the pale delineaments of the bark so close to her face shortening its arc .
cp13.54.2	post-adv	And , shoving her against a spruce , her back to him , he retreated with the whip and made it whine and crack in the damp air , shortening its arc until it narrowed to her flesh and the sound of it snarled and cracked , while she stood as unchanged , as dark and motionless as ever , her eyes open and staring at the pale delineaments of the bark so close to her face settling its own cruel demons on her shoulders .
cp13.66.0	ref	He said , `` Let me take her blows , for there are demons in me too '' .
cp13.66.1	post-adj2	He said , `` Let me take her blows , for there are demons too in me '' .
cp13.67.0	ref	Then , without knowing why , she found herself running from them , fleeing wildly through the trees , dodging her own shadows until she came to a little hollow in the rocky ground with a big stone in the center behind which she knelt and hid , listening to the madness of her heart and wanting for once to cry .
cp13.67.1	pre-adj2	Without knowing why , then , she found herself running from them , fleeing wildly through the trees , dodging her own shadows until she came to a little hollow in the rocky ground with a big stone in the center behind which she knelt and hid , listening to the madness of her heart and wanting for once to cry .
cp13.67.2	post-adv	Then , without knowing why , she found herself until she came to a little hollow in the rocky ground with a big stone in the center behind which she knelt and hid , listening to the madness of her heart and wanting for once to cry running from them , fleeing wildly through the trees , dodging her own shadows .
cp13.68.0	ref	For a while the young men waited outside the lodge of TuHulHulZote , glorying in his harsh language as he talked with himself .
cp13.68.1	post-adv	For a while the young men waited outside the lodge of TuHulHulZote , as he talked with himself glorying in his harsh language .
cp13.70.0	ref	He ranted and prophesied the doom of his enemies , walking in circles in and out of his living place , drinking stolen whisky in great , gasping draughts until finally , incoherent and sick , he fell into his own oblivion .
cp13.70.1	post-adv	Until finally , incoherent and sick , he fell into his own oblivion he ranted and prophesied the doom of his enemies , walking in circles in and out of his living place , drinking stolen whisky in great , gasping draughts .
cp13.70.2	post-adj2	He ranted and prophesied the doom of his enemies , walking in and out of his living place in circles , drinking stolen whisky in great , gasping draughts until finally , incoherent and sick , he fell into his own oblivion .
cp13.76.0	ref	They went into the sun together and paraded grandly in their war clothes , painting their faces with the sacred attis dug far off in the cave of skeletons .
cp13.76.1	post-adj2	They went together into the sun and paraded grandly in their war clothes , painting their faces with the sacred attis dug far off in the cave of skeletons .
cp13.77.0	ref	They danced the paxam wildly at night , the war dance , and dipped their arrowheads in the venom of rattlesnakes and rode their horses in swift maneuvers , firing their few guns in unison at some indeterminate signal .
cp13.77.1	post-adj2	They danced the paxam at night wildly , the war dance , and dipped their arrowheads in the venom of rattlesnakes and rode their horses in swift maneuvers , firing their few guns in unison at some indeterminate signal .
cp13.78.0	ref	Walitzee was among them , and Sarpsis , and they wore red blankets which flew like broad wings in the air of their passing .
cp13.78.1	post-adj2	Walitzee was among them , and Sarpsis , and they wore red blankets which flew in the air of their passing like broad wings .
cp13.81.0	ref	He would spring bolt upright suddenly after sitting quietly with inaction , because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices .
cp13.81.1	post-adv	He , because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices , would spring bolt upright suddenly after sitting quietly with inaction .
cp13.81.2	post-adj3	He would spring suddenly bolt upright after sitting quietly with inaction , because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices .
cp13.81.3	post-adj3	He would spring after sitting quietly with inaction suddenly bolt upright , because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices .
cp13.81.4	post-adj3	He would spring bolt upright after sitting quietly with inaction suddenly , because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices .
cp13.81.5	post-adj3	He would spring , after sitting quietly with inaction , bolt upright suddenly because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices .
cp13.81.6	post-adj3	He would spring suddenly after sitting quietly with inaction bolt upright , because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices .
cp13.84.0	ref	At times they would ride frenziedly through the camp , letting the women see their courage , how handsome they were in their regalia .
cp13.84.1	post-adj2	At times they would ride through the camp frenziedly , letting the women see their courage , how handsome they were in their regalia .
cp13.86.0	ref	They combed their hair and streaked it at the part and greased the bangs so that the hair above their foreheads stood rigid like the tails of sage hens making love .
cp13.86.1	post-adv	So that the hair above their foreheads stood rigid like the tails of sage hens making love they combed their hair and streaked it at the part and greased the bangs .
cp13.92.0	ref	He felt so much like laughing ; even like shouting and crying out from the hilltops from which he could descend as an eagle in a mad caper from the cliffs .
cp13.92.1	post-adj2	He felt like laughing ; even like shouting and crying out from the hilltops from which he could descend as an eagle in a mad caper from the cliffs so much .
cp13.101.0	ref	Standing then with the others , peering into the sun , he saw the bright , multicolored legion , their hair flying like dark banners , only the thunder , the roll of drums , the mad cacophony of the hoofs accompanying them .
cp13.101.1	post-adj2	Standing with the others then , peering into the sun , he saw the bright , multicolored legion , their hair flying like dark banners , only the thunder , the roll of drums , the mad cacophony of the hoofs accompanying them .
cp13.102.0	ref	They leaned into the wind and seemed like one thousand-legged monster hurtling and plunging until suddenly they rose straight in their saddles and in one terrifying voice shouted , ejaculated their grotesque cry of war .
cp13.102.1	post-adv	Until suddenly they rose straight in their saddles and in one terrifying voice shouted , ejaculated their grotesque cry of war they leaned into the wind and seemed like one thousand-legged monster hurtling and plunging .
cp14.1.0	ref	She was moving through a screen of hemlocks , in among the white birch and maples .
cp14.1.1	post-adj2	She was moving in among the white birch and maples , through a screen of hemlocks .
cp14.5.0	ref	She felt as if some dark , totally unfamiliar shape would clutch at her arm ; but she found the path she always used , the stubs of branches she had broken , those she had pushed aside ; and she walked easily now , and more slowly , until she could see the dark glisten of water beneath her .
cp14.5.1	post-adv	She felt as if some dark , totally unfamiliar shape would clutch at her arm ; but she found the path she always used , the stubs of branches she had broken , those she had pushed aside ; and , until she could see the dark glisten of water beneath her , she walked easily now , and more slowly .
cp14.6.0	ref	If I ever committed suicide , she thought , I would dive straight down from here -- and no one would find me for days .
cp14.6.1	pre-adv	She thought , I would dive straight down from here , if I ever committed suicide -- and no one would find me for days .
cp14.9.0	ref	The reedy music of the frogs had faded , but presently it began again , growing in volume until it was vibrant .
cp14.9.1	post-adv	The reedy music of the frogs had faded , but presently it began again , until it was vibrant growing in volume .
cp14.16.0	ref	Perhaps it was because it was so late , and because she had no business to be here now .
cp14.16.1	post-adj2	Perhaps it was because it was so late , and because she had no business to be now here .
cp14.19.0	ref	And then off he went so casually , to someone else with breasts better developed , more obvious in a lower-cut dress , someone without a mouthful of wire bands and an inability to find words that would hold him .
cp14.19.1	pre-adj2	And off then he went so casually , to someone else with breasts better developed , more obvious in a lower-cut dress , someone without a mouthful of wire bands and an inability to find words that would hold him .
cp14.19.2	post-adj2	And then off he went to someone else with breasts better developed , more obvious in a lower-cut dress , someone without a mouthful of wire bands and an inability to find words that would hold him , so casually .
cp14.22.0	ref	I wish I were older or younger , Julia Bentley thought .
cp14.22.1	quote	I wish I were older or younger , thought Julia Bentley .
cp14.30.0	ref	Below him , as if at the end of some remote tunnel , he heard the humming of a vacuum cleaner .
cp14.30.1	pre-adj2	As if at the end of some remote tunnel , below him , he heard the humming of a vacuum cleaner .
cp14.36.0	ref	A fearful pain had come from his head , as if the water were coursing up through the blood vessels and expanding them .
cp14.36.1	post-adv	A fearful pain , as if the water were coursing up through the blood vessels and expanding them , had come from his head .
cp14.52.0	ref	Too early for a vacuum cleaner , but probably Sam wanted the whole house in order before he came downstairs .
cp14.52.1	post-adv	Too early for a vacuum cleaner , but before he came downstairs probably Sam wanted the whole house in order .
cp14.61.0	ref	He was supposed to be in court this afternoon , at City Hall .
cp14.61.1	post-adj3	He was supposed to be this afternoon in court , at City Hall .
cp14.61.2	post-adj3	He was supposed to be at City Hall this afternoon , in court .
cp14.61.3	post-adj3	He was supposed to be in court at City Hall , this afternoon .
cp14.61.4	post-adj3	He was supposed to be , at City Hall , in court this afternoon .
cp14.61.5	post-adj3	He was supposed to be this afternoon , at City Hall in court .
cp14.63.0	ref	He 'd have to think , but the main thing , the imperative necessity , was to leave before Sam Bentley was up and about , and before Millie detained him with sympathy .
cp14.63.1	post-adv	He 'd have to think , but the main thing , the imperative necessity , was before Sam Bentley was up and about , and before Millie detained him with sympathy to leave .
cp14.84.0	ref	`` Well , at least you wo n't have to do that '' , she was saying .
cp14.84.1	quote	`` Well , at least you wo n't have to do that '' , was saying she .
cp14.88.0	ref	`` I 'm going back to school '' , she answered .
cp14.88.1	quote	`` I 'm going back to school '' , answered she .
cp14.88.2	post-adj2	`` I 'm going to school back '' , she answered .
cp14.91.0	ref	But have you told Mother you were going '' ? She asked him .
cp14.91.1	quote	But have you told Mother you were going '' ? asked she him .
cp14.95.0	ref	It 's quite a big one '' , he added .
cp14.95.1	quote	It 's quite a big one '' , added he .
cp14.97.0	ref	`` Well , wo n't you come in then , have a cup of coffee -- or something ?
cp14.97.1	post-adj2	`` Well , wo n't you come then in , have a cup of coffee -- or something ?
cp14.101.0	ref	`` I 'll just wait for you here '' .
cp14.101.1	post-adj2	`` I 'll just wait here for you '' .
cp14.118.0	ref	I would n't have the strength to answer , he thought .
cp14.118.1	quote	I would n't have the strength to answer , thought he .
cp14.123.0	ref	`` I 'll take that , Julie -- for you '' .
cp14.123.1	dat-np-np	`` I 'll take Julie , to that -- for you '' .
cp14.129.0	ref	Pietro was gazing at him in an insolent , disdainful fashion ; but that did n't matter .
cp14.129.1	post-adj2	Pietro was gazing in an insolent , disdainful fashion at him ; but that did n't matter .
cp14.130.0	ref	We 'll drop Mr. Rawlings off in Ardmore '' , Julia said , and for the merest second George was reminded of her father 's tone with servants .
cp14.130.1	quote	We 'll drop Mr. Rawlings off in Ardmore '' , said Julia , and for the merest second George was reminded of her father 's tone with servants .
cp14.136.0	ref	`` I wish I did n't have to go back to school '' , she said , and then , `` I wish you lived in New York .
cp14.136.1	quote	`` I wish I did n't have to go back to school '' , said she , and then , `` I wish you lived in New York .
cp14.136.2	post-adj2	`` I wish I did n't have to go to school back '' , she said , and then , `` I wish you lived in New York .
cp14.138.0	ref	`` I wish I did '' , he responded .
cp14.138.1	quote	`` I wish I did '' , responded he .
cp14.139.0	ref	`` I wish I was n't wearing this ridiculous costume , and that we could go to a theater together , or a nice restaurant , forget we knew '' He stopped speaking .
cp14.139.1	post-adj2	`` I wish I was n't wearing this ridiculous costume , and that we could go together to a theater , or a nice restaurant , forget we knew '' He stopped speaking .
cp14.142.0	ref	She said nothing until Pietro had slackened their pace .
cp14.142.1	post-adv	Until Pietro had slackened their pace she said nothing .
cp14.157.0	ref	You 've done me the greatest possible service .
cp14.157.1	dat-np-np	You 've done the greatest possible service to me .
cp14.159.0	ref	`` Take care of yourself then '' .
cp14.159.1	post-adj2	`` Take care then of yourself '' .
cp14.163.0	ref	It was an automatic phrase ; as he crossed through the courtyard he regretted it .
cp14.163.1	pre-adv	It was an automatic phrase ; he regretted it , as he crossed through the courtyard .
cp14.167.0	ref	`` I bumped into a door handle '' , George said .
cp14.167.1	quote	`` I bumped into a door handle '' , said George .
cp14.169.0	ref	George walked steadily ahead into his entry .
cp14.169.1	post-adj3	George walked ahead steadily into his entry .
cp14.169.2	post-adj3	George walked into his entry ahead steadily .
cp14.169.3	post-adj3	George walked steadily into his entry ahead .
cp14.169.4	post-adj3	George walked into his entry steadily ahead .
cp14.169.5	post-adj3	George walked ahead into his entry steadily .
cp14.173.0	ref	Just one or two swallows , he told himself , enough to lessen some of the pain .
cp14.173.1	dat-np-np	Just one or two swallows , he told enough to lessen some of the pain , to himself .
cp14.182.0	ref	Yes , sure , I 'll see the doctor -- this evening , if you insist . ''
cp14.182.1	post-adv	Yes , sure , I , if you insist , 'll see the doctor -- this evening . ''
cp14.189.0	ref	I wo n't be in town for a couple of days , though , and there 's that case I was supposed to handle this afternoon .
cp14.189.1	post-adj3	I wo n't be for a couple of days in town , though , and there 's that case I was supposed to handle this afternoon .
cp14.189.2	post-adj3	I wo n't be though for a couple of days , in town , and there 's that case I was supposed to handle this afternoon .
cp14.189.3	post-adj3	I wo n't be in town though , for a couple of days , and there 's that case I was supposed to handle this afternoon .
cp14.189.4	post-adj3	I wo n't be , though , in town for a couple of days , and there 's that case I was supposed to handle this afternoon .
cp14.189.5	post-adj3	I wo n't be for a couple of days , though in town , and there 's that case I was supposed to handle this afternoon .
cp14.194.0	ref	He 'll understand -- you might give him sort of a tactful nudge .
cp14.194.1	dat-np-np	He 'll understand -- you might give sort of a tactful nudge to him .
cp14.208.0	ref	She lived alone in the older part of the city , in one of those renovated houses whose brick facade some early settler had constructed .
cp14.208.1	post-adj2	She lived alone in one of those renovated houses whose brick facade some early settler had constructed , in the older part of the city .
cp14.211.0	ref	She let him come and go as he pleased , or as it pleased her .
cp14.211.1	post-adv	She let as he pleased , or as it pleased her him come and go .
cp14.212.0	ref	In the office you might have thought them only casual friends ; yet if he said : Make an excuse yourself , come out here today , she would have been on the next train -- and , similarly , if she had been in need , he would have gone to her .
cp14.212.1	dat-np-np	In the office you might have thought them only casual friends ; yet if he said : Make yourself to an excuse , come out here today , she would have been on the next train -- and , similarly , if she had been in need , he would have gone to her .
cp14.212.2	pre-adv	In the office you might have thought them only casual friends ; yet she would have been on the next train , if he said : Make an excuse yourself , come out here today -- and , similarly , if she had been in need , he would have gone to her .
cp14.212.3	pre-adv	In the office you might have thought them only casual friends ; yet if he said : Make an excuse yourself , come out here today , she would have been on the next train -- and , similarly he would have gone to her , if she had been in need .
cp14.212.4	post-adj2	In the office you might have thought them only casual friends ; yet if he said : Make an excuse yourself , come today out here , she would have been on the next train -- and , similarly , if she had been in need , he would have gone to her .
cp15.5.0	ref	She 's a year older than I am , Lucy told herself .
cp15.5.1	quote	She 's a year older than I am , told Lucy herself .
cp15.17.0	ref	Jim 's fine young face was an expressive one , too ; as he looked at her , it registered anxiety .
cp15.17.1	pre-adv	Jim 's fine young face was an expressive one , too ; it registered anxiety , as he looked at her .
cp15.18.0	ref	`` You know '' , he said .
cp15.18.1	quote	`` You know '' , said he .
cp15.20.0	ref	It 'll be only a couple of weeks before she finds a home for them in Paris -- but even so , she wants you to know that she 's awfully grateful '' .
cp15.20.1	post-adv	It before she finds a home for them in Paris 'll be only a couple of weeks -- but even so , she wants you to know that she 's awfully grateful '' .
cp15.20.2	post-adj2	It 'll be only a couple of weeks before she finds a home in Paris for them -- but even so , she wants you to know that she 's awfully grateful '' .
cp15.24.0	ref	`` She should have told me herself .
cp15.24.1	dat-np-np	`` She should have told herself to me .
cp15.28.0	ref	Lucy suspected that Myra would never have come home if Gregg , Myra 's husband , had n't gone out to fetch her .
cp15.28.1	post-adv	Lucy suspected that Myra would never if Gregg , Myra 's husband , had n't gone out to fetch her have come home .
cp15.30.0	ref	For an otherwise silent moment , Jim 's keys jingled nervously in his pocket .
cp15.30.1	post-adj2	For an otherwise silent moment , Jim 's keys jingled in his pocket nervously .
cp15.41.0	ref	The youngster drew her , troubled her depths ; whenever Lucy saw her , she tried , without noise or fuss , to give her the warmth she had never had from Myra .
cp15.41.1	dat-np-np	The youngster drew her , troubled her depths ; whenever Lucy saw her , she tried , without noise or fuss , to give the warmth she had never had from Myra to her .
cp15.41.2	pre-adv	The youngster drew her , troubled her depths ; she tried , without noise or fuss , to give her the warmth she had never had from Myra , whenever Lucy saw her .
cp15.43.0	ref	`` I would n't even be surprised '' , she said unhappily , `` if Myra tried to leave her with us forever '' .
cp15.43.1	post-adv	`` I would n't even `` if Myra tried to leave her with us forever be surprised '' , she said unhappily '' .
cp15.44.0	ref	Myra loved big cities ; thousands of miles away -- in Paris , of all places -- she might forget she had ever been a mother .
cp15.44.1	pre-adj2	Myra loved big cities ; in Paris , of all places -- thousands of miles away -- she might forget she had ever been a mother .
cp15.51.0	ref	Was it only a few nights ago that they had been standing together in front of the house looking at the moon-washed river ?
cp15.51.1	post-adj2	Was it only a few nights ago that they had been standing in front of the house together looking at the moon-washed river ?
cp15.53.0	ref	Then , from within the still , sleeping house , the telephone had rung ; Myra , with her news , was on the other end of the line .
cp15.53.1	pre-adj2	From within the still , sleeping house , then , the telephone had rung ; Myra , with her news , was on the other end of the line .
cp15.54.0	ref	Jim turned back from the stairway and looked at her .
cp15.54.1	post-adj2	Jim turned from the stairway back and looked at her .
cp15.59.0	ref	But they were n't just friends , Lucy thought ; they were husband and wife , and Myra had no right muddling and chilling their marriage .
cp15.59.1	quote	But they were n't just friends , thought Lucy ; they were husband and wife , and Myra had no right muddling and chilling their marriage .
cp15.62.0	ref	`` Well , at last '' , she said , because Susan was clattering down the stairs .
cp15.62.1	post-adv	Because Susan was clattering down the stairs , `` well , at last '' , she said .
cp15.64.0	ref	`` I 'm ready '' , she announced .
cp15.64.1	quote	`` I 'm ready '' , announced she .
cp15.66.0	ref	His voice had sharp edges , as though he knew very well Lucy and he were not friends at the moment .
cp15.66.1	post-adv	As though he knew very well Lucy and he were not friends at the moment , his voice had sharp edges .
cp15.68.0	ref	Susan stared at him with hurt blue eyes that gushed an instant grief ; to her , each of her dolls was a real person with a living heart .
cp15.68.1	post-adj2	Susan stared with hurt blue eyes that gushed an instant grief at him ; to her , each of her dolls was a real person with a living heart .
cp15.71.0	ref	She gave Jim a quick , shape-up look of warning .
cp15.71.1	dat-np-np	She gave a quick , shape-up look of warning to Jim .
cp15.74.0	ref	And when you get back from Grandma 's , Cathy will be here to play with you .
cp15.74.1	pre-adv	And Cathy will be here to play with you , when you get back from Grandma 's .
cp15.74.2	post-adj2	And when you get from Grandma 's back , Cathy will be here to play with you .
cp15.76.0	ref	`` No '' , Susan said , grappling with her outsized armload of dolls with a Scrooge-like effect .
cp15.76.1	post-adj2	`` No '' , Susan said , grappling with a Scrooge-like effect with her outsized armload of dolls .
cp15.78.0	ref	That was one more reason she did n't look forward to Cathy 's visit , short or long ; the last one had been a Lilliputian war .
cp15.78.1	post-adj2	That was one more reason she did n't look to Cathy 's visit , short or long forward ; the last one had been a Lilliputian war .
cp15.79.0	ref	She suspected that Cathy had been competing with Susan for attention that she had never had .
cp15.79.1	post-adj2	She suspected that Cathy had been competing for attention that she had never had with Susan .
cp15.81.0	ref	When the car , with Susan 's hands waving wildly from the rear window , disappeared down the driveway , Lucy stood looking after its pale dust .
cp15.81.1	pre-adv	Lucy stood looking after its pale dust , when the car , with Susan 's hands waving wildly from the rear window , disappeared down the driveway .
cp15.81.2	post-adj2	When the car , with Susan 's hands waving from the rear window wildly , disappeared down the driveway , Lucy stood looking after its pale dust .
cp15.84.0	ref	She was sorry , and angry at herself , because never in their life together had she done that .
cp15.84.1	pre-adj2	She was sorry , and angry at herself , because in their life together never had she done that .
cp15.84.2	post-adv	Because never in their life together had she done that , she was sorry , and angry at herself .
cp15.88.0	ref	She had better stay there , Lucy thought ; the sly female cowbirds took instant advantage of nests without sentinels .
cp15.88.1	quote	She had better stay there , thought Lucy ; the sly female cowbirds took instant advantage of nests without sentinels .
cp15.93.0	ref	For a moment , her mind returned again to the strange , flying world of birds , and she said to herself . It is n't only birds that dump their children in other people 's nests .
cp15.93.1	post-adj2	For a moment , her mind returned to the strange , flying world of birds again , and she said to herself . It is n't only birds that dump their children in other people 's nests .
cp15.95.0	ref	There were new yellow curtains , bright as a child 's life ought to be , a new bedspread , lively with hopping rabbits , and hanging from the ceiling was an airy Mother Goose Mobile , spinning slowly in the breeze .
cp15.95.1	post-adj2	There were new yellow curtains , bright as a child 's life ought to be , a new bedspread , lively with hopping rabbits , and hanging from the ceiling was an airy Mother Goose Mobile , spinning in the breeze slowly .
cp15.96.0	ref	A row of little hangers waited for a child 's clothes in the neatly empty closet ; since Myra had always put most of Greg 's money on her own back , Lucy suspected that no more than a few of that long row would be needed .
cp15.96.1	pre-adv	A row of little hangers waited for a child 's clothes in the neatly empty closet ; Lucy suspected that no more than a few of that long row would be needed , since Myra had always put most of Greg 's money on her own back .
cp15.96.2	post-adj2	A row of little hangers waited in the neatly empty closet for a child 's clothes ; since Myra had always put most of Greg 's money on her own back , Lucy suspected that no more than a few of that long row would be needed .
cp15.97.0	ref	The closet was faintly fragrant with lavender , and as Lucy shut the door an unhappy memory slipped into her mind , like a lavender ghost : Greg 's house , on the day he was buried , and the child , pale , silent , baffled , watching the funeral guests with panicky eyes .
cp15.97.1	pre-adv	The closet was faintly fragrant with lavender , and an unhappy memory slipped into her mind , like a lavender ghost as Lucy shut the door : Greg 's house , on the day he was buried , and the child , pale , silent , baffled , watching the funeral guests with panicky eyes .
cp15.97.2	post-adj2	The closet was faintly fragrant with lavender , and as Lucy shut the door an unhappy memory slipped like a lavender ghost , into her mind : Greg 's house , on the day he was buried , and the child , pale , silent , baffled , watching the funeral guests with panicky eyes .
cp15.100.0	ref	When she picked up the receiver , her mother 's cheerful voice was there .
cp15.100.1	pre-adv	Her mother 's cheerful voice was there , when she picked up the receiver .
cp15.101.0	ref	`` Websterville Junction calling '' , she said .
cp15.101.1	quote	`` Websterville Junction calling '' , said she .
cp15.106.0	ref	Susan was an active character ; for Mother to be able to call , Susan must be napping now , surrounded by her multitude of dolls .
cp15.106.1	pre-adv	Susan was an active character ; Susan must be napping now , surrounded by her multitude of dolls , for Mother to be able to call .
cp15.116.0	ref	`` Well '' -- This time there was a long silence , while the telephone hummed faintly with a voiceless life .
cp15.116.1	post-adv	While the telephone hummed faintly with a voiceless life , `` well '' -- This time there was a long silence .
cp15.116.2	post-adj2	`` Well '' -- This time there was a long silence , while the telephone hummed with a voiceless life faintly .
cp15.118.0	ref	Was she thinking along the same lines Lucy was -- that it was quite possible Cathy might be left with her for good ?
cp15.118.1	post-adj2	Was she thinking along the same lines Lucy was -- that it was quite possible Cathy might be left for good with her ?
cp15.121.0	ref	Suddenly , seekingly , Lucy asked , `` Mother , do you know something I do n't know '' ?
cp15.121.1	pre-adj2	Seekingly , suddenly , Lucy asked , `` Mother , do you know something I do n't know '' ?
cp15.123.0	ref	Just before Myra left -- She was saying good-by to Cathy , and she did n't realize I was near '' .
cp15.123.1	pre-adv	She was saying good-by to Cathy -- just before Myra left -- and she did n't realize I was near '' .
cp15.124.0	ref	She hesitated , as though hunting over words and ways of putting them .
cp15.124.1	post-adv	As though hunting over words and ways of putting them , she hesitated .
cp15.125.0	ref	`` Cathy was in tears , of course , and I heard Myra say ' Now be good , and at Christmastime I 'll send you a wonderful present from Paris ' '' .
cp15.125.1	dat-np-np	`` Cathy was in tears , of course , and I heard Myra say ' Now be good , and at Christmastime I 'll send a wonderful present to you from Paris ' '' .
cp15.130.0	ref	Myra had no intention whatever of sending for Cathy in two weeks .
cp15.130.1	post-adj2	Myra had no intention whatever of sending in two weeks for Cathy .
cp15.131.0	ref	For a moment , anger darkened the hallway about her , and when she found her voice , anger thickened it .
cp15.131.1	pre-adv	For a moment , anger darkened the hallway about her , and anger thickened it , when she found her voice .
cp15.132.0	ref	`` That does it '' ! She said .
cp15.132.1	quote	`` That does it '' ! said she .
cp15.134.0	ref	Then , if Myra does nothing about fetching her , I 'll pack her right back to her mother -- if I have to take her myself '' !
cp15.134.1	dat-np-np	Then , if Myra does nothing about fetching her , I 'll pack her right back to her mother -- if I have to take myself to her '' !
cp15.134.2	post-adv	Then , if Myra does nothing about fetching her , I -- if I have to take her myself -- 'll pack her right back to her mother '' !
cp15.134.3	pre-adv	Then I 'll pack her right back to her mother -- if I have to take her myself , if Myra does nothing about fetching her '' !
cp15.138.0	ref	As she hung up , she saw through the hall 's open window the purple-black flying of the cowbirds ' wings , and heard their grotesque singing .
cp15.138.1	pre-adv	She saw through the hall 's open window the purple-black flying of the cowbirds ' wings , and heard their grotesque singing , as she hung up .
cp15.140.0	ref	She 's not going to get away with it .
cp15.140.1	post-adj2	She 's not going to get with it away .
cp15.141.0	ref	Cathy is tired , Lucy thought , watching them come slowly up the path .
cp15.141.1	quote	Cathy is tired , thought , watching Lucy them come slowly up the path .
cp15.141.2	post-adj2	Cathy is tired , Lucy thought , watching them come up the path slowly .
cp15.143.0	ref	She trudged along slowly , both hands clutching a tired teddy bear .
cp15.143.1	post-adj2	She trudged slowly along , both hands clutching a tired teddy bear .
cp16.3.0	ref	For eleven days they 'd done the same thing , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards .
cp16.3.1	post-adv	For eleven days they 'd done the same thing , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast .
cp16.3.2	post-adj2	For eleven days they 'd done the same thing , leaving the cottage before breakfast quietly , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards .
cp16.5.0	ref	They walked slowly past the sherbet-colored cottages -- eleven lemon , nine mint , seven orange -- around the curve to a deserted stand with an `` Eats '' sign jiggling in the wind .
cp16.5.1	post-adj2	They walked past the sherbet-colored cottages -- eleven lemon , nine mint , seven orange -- around the curve to a deserted stand with an `` Eats '' sign jiggling in the wind slowly .
cp16.8.0	ref	Nothing but sand and a ridge of rocks sloping jaggedly to the water 's edge .
cp16.8.1	post-adj2	Nothing but sand and a ridge of rocks sloping to the water 's edge jaggedly .
cp16.10.0	ref	His rock was special because no one on the beach could see him here .
cp16.10.1	post-adv	Because no one on the beach could see him here his rock was special .
cp16.18.0	ref	He was six feet one like his father , with big hands and a hairy chest , a man the weak and persecuted would turn to .
cp16.18.1	post-adj2	He was six feet one with big hands and a hairy chest , like his father , a man the weak and persecuted would turn to .
cp16.21.0	ref	A dark bathroom can be pretty scary , and he 'd creep back to bed , proud of himself , thinking : Tomorrow , for sure , I 'll go down to the rock and keep my promise to Dad .
cp16.21.1	pre-adj2	A dark bathroom can be pretty scary , and he 'd creep back to bed , proud of himself , thinking : for sure , tomorrow , I 'll go down to the rock and keep my promise to Dad .
cp16.21.2	post-adj2	A dark bathroom can be pretty scary , and he 'd creep to bed back , proud of himself , thinking : Tomorrow , for sure , I 'll go down to the rock and keep my promise to Dad .
cp16.23.0	ref	It happened two weeks ago , the night before his father left on a business trip to South America .
cp16.23.1	post-adj2	It happened the night before his father left on a business trip to South America , two weeks ago .
cp16.24.0	ref	Every piece of the nightmare was clear , in place ; and when he woke up , his father was saying , `` Stop screaming , Quint .
cp16.24.1	pre-adv	Every piece of the nightmare was clear , in place ; and his father was saying , `` Stop screaming , Quint , when he woke up .
cp16.30.0	ref	While I 'm gone you get brown and fat as a pig , hear ?
cp16.30.1	pre-adv	You get brown and fat as a pig while I 'm gone , hear ?
cp16.39.0	ref	When you get back I 'll probly be swimming better than Victoria .
cp16.39.1	pre-adv	I 'll probly be swimming better than Victoria when you get back .
cp16.44.0	ref	Or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
cp16.44.1	dat-np-np	Or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give the strength to go swimming like he promised to my brother '' .
cp16.44.2	post-adv	Or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength like he promised to go swimming '' .
cp16.44.3	pre-adv	Or she prayed for him out loud at bedtime , what was worse : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
cp16.44.4	post-adj3	Or , what was worse , she prayed out loud for him at bedtime : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
cp16.44.5	post-adj3	Or , what was worse , she prayed at bedtime out loud for him : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
cp16.44.6	post-adj3	Or , what was worse , she prayed for him at bedtime out loud : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
cp16.44.7	post-adj3	Or , what was worse , she prayed at bedtime for him out loud : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
cp16.44.8	post-adj3	Or , what was worse , she prayed out loud at bedtime for him : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised '' .
cp16.45.0	ref	`` She 's got a nerve '' . Quint said now to the clouds .
cp16.45.1	post-adj2	`` She 's got a nerve '' . Quint said to the clouds now .
cp16.53.0	ref	The wind bored a hole between his shoulder blades , and when he looked at the choppy waves coming and going and crossing each other he could see his head down there , bleeding , wedged between the rocks and the waves .
cp16.53.1	pre-adv	The wind bored a hole between his shoulder blades , and he could see his head down there , bleeding , wedged between the rocks and the waves when he looked at the choppy waves coming and going and crossing each other .
cp16.59.0	ref	She was holding on to his rock with one hand .
cp16.59.1	post-adj2	She was holding with one hand on to his rock .
cp16.79.0	ref	`` You should n't smoke so much '' , he said , unconsciously imitating Victoria 's holier-than-thou voice .
cp16.79.1	quote	`` You should n't smoke so much '' , said he , unconsciously imitating Victoria 's holier-than-thou voice .
cp16.86.0	ref	`` If I was your mama , I 'd wop your tail off '' .
cp16.86.1	pre-adv	I 'd wop your tail off `` if I was your mama '' .
cp16.89.0	ref	She seemed so unimpressed that he was obliged to roll up his blue jeans so she could see his brace .
cp16.89.1	post-adv	She seemed so unimpressed that he so she could see his brace was obliged to roll up his blue jeans .
cp16.93.0	ref	Dr. Fortman says if I exercise my leg more , maybe I can use a cane when I 'm big '' .
cp16.93.1	post-adv	Dr. Fortman says if I exercise my leg more , maybe I when I 'm big can use a cane '' .
cp16.93.2	pre-adv	Dr. Fortman says maybe I can use a cane when I 'm big , if I exercise my leg more '' .
cp16.97.0	ref	Or say a waiter brings you a bowl of soup with a dead fly in it -- all you got to do is bannnnnng , stooooomp your cane on the floor .
cp16.97.1	dat-np-np	Or say a waiter brings a bowl of soup with a dead fly in it to you -- all you got to do is bannnnnng , stooooomp your cane on the floor .
cp16.104.0	ref	He always did when people asked .
cp16.104.1	post-adv	When people asked he always did .
cp16.105.0	ref	`` Holy mackerel , that 's the most unique dog I ever saw '' , she said firmly .
cp16.105.1	quote	`` Holy mackerel , that 's the most unique dog I ever saw '' , said she firmly .
cp16.106.0	ref	`` His real name 's DiMaggio , only we call him Maggie because he has to take tranquilizers .
cp16.106.1	post-adv	`` His real name 's DiMaggio , because he has to take tranquilizers only we call him Maggie .
cp16.115.0	ref	Even though this is my rock , you can use it sometimes .
cp16.115.1	pre-adv	You can use it sometimes , even though this is my rock .
cp16.128.0	ref	Personally , I prefer straight hair like yours , but as they say on the Continent ' What can one do ' '' ?
cp16.128.1	pre-adv	Personally , I prefer straight hair like yours , but ' What can one do as they say on the Continent ' '' ?
cp16.131.0	ref	Japan , she said , smelled pugh because people let dead fish lie on the beaches till the fish got hard as rocks ; then they scraped off the mold and made fish soup .
cp16.131.1	post-adv	Because people let dead fish lie on the beaches till the fish got hard as rocks ; then they scraped off the mold and made fish soup Japan , she said , smelled pugh .
cp16.131.2	post-adv	Japan , she said , smelled pugh because people let till the fish got hard as rocks dead fish lie on the beaches ; then they scraped off the mold and made fish soup .
cp16.135.0	ref	As for dancing -- holy mackerel , he ought to see the gypsies in Jerez ; they danced on the sand till your blood got hot and danced with them .
cp16.135.1	post-adv	As for dancing -- holy mackerel , he ought to see the gypsies in Jerez ; till your blood got hot and danced with them they danced on the sand .
cp16.139.0	ref	Artfully , as the days went by , he found occasion to tell her that his father had won the Navy Cross in the Korean War ; that his baby sister could spit up through her nose when she felt like it ; that he personally had an IQ of 141 and was currently reading the Mushr to Ozon volume of the encyclopedia .
cp16.139.1	post-adv	Artfully , as the days went by , he found occasion to tell her that his father had won the Navy Cross in the Korean War ; that his baby sister when she felt like it could spit up through her nose ; that he personally had an IQ of 141 and was currently reading the Mushr to Ozon volume of the encyclopedia .
cp16.139.2	pre-adv	Artfully he found occasion to tell her that his father had won the Navy Cross in the Korean War ; that his baby sister could spit up through her nose when she felt like it ; that he personally had an IQ of 141 and was currently reading the Mushr to Ozon volume of the encyclopedia , as the days went by .
cp16.144.0	ref	Let 's get dressed up -- the doctor 's taking us out tonight '' .
cp16.144.1	dat-np-np	Let 's get dressed up -- the doctor 's taking tonight out to us '' .
cp16.149.0	ref	He snuck up on the ham like Maggie , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick , while his mother said , `` That does it .
cp16.149.1	post-adv	He snuck up on the ham like Maggie , while his mother said , `` That does it , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick .
cp16.149.2	post-adj2	He snuck up like Maggie on the ham , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick , while his mother said , `` That does it .
cp16.151.0	ref	`` Say , you 're quite a comic '' , Sabella said admiringly .
cp16.151.1	quote	`` Say , you 're quite a comic '' , said Sabella admiringly .
cp16.156.0	ref	`` Better make up your mind , son '' , Sabella said .
cp16.156.1	dat-np-np	`` Better make up son , to your mind '' , Sabella said .
cp16.164.0	ref	`` Nobody gave me flowers before .
cp16.164.1	dat-np-np	`` Nobody gave flowers to me before .
cp16.169.0	ref	He daydreamed on the rock while she swam and splashed around .
cp16.169.1	post-adv	While she swam and splashed around he daydreamed on the rock .
cp16.170.0	ref	Once when she asked why he never went swimming and he answered , `` Do n't feel like it '' , he was tempted to tell her about being scared .
cp16.170.1	pre-adv	Once he was tempted to tell her about being scared , when she asked why he never went swimming and he answered , `` Do n't feel like it '' .
cp16.175.0	ref	`` We beseech thee , Lord Gord , to bless this food '' -- that was Victoria saying grace while the baby sprayed raisin toast on her plastic bib .
cp16.175.1	post-adv	`` We beseech thee , Lord Gord , to bless this food '' -- that was while the baby sprayed raisin toast on her plastic bib Victoria saying grace .
cp16.177.0	ref	`` Your Daddy 's in San Francisco '' , she told them .
cp16.177.1	quote	`` Your Daddy 's in San Francisco '' , told she them .
cp16.178.0	ref	`` He says he 'll be here on the one-o'clock plane .
cp16.178.1	post-adj2	`` He says he 'll be on the one-o'clock plane here .
cp16.184.0	ref	Victoria , I want you to '' Quint closed the screen door quietly so Maggie would n't be scared .
cp16.184.1	post-adv	Victoria , I want you to '' so Maggie would n't be scared Quint closed the screen door quietly .
cp16.185.0	ref	`` Hurry up , we 're late '' , he said , noticing with a chill how gray the sky was this morning , the fog like a rope along the horizon , the choppy waves sending off sheets of blue and Kool-Aid green .
cp16.185.1	quote	`` Hurry up , we 're late '' , said , noticing he with a chill how gray the sky was this morning , the fog like a rope along the horizon , the choppy waves sending off sheets of blue and Kool-Aid green .
cp16.189.0	ref	It had started two years ago when he was in an iron lung .
cp16.189.1	post-adv	It when he was in an iron lung had started two years ago .
cp16.195.0	ref	The first time the nurse took him out of the lung , she said if he got frightened , she 'd put him back for a second .
cp16.195.1	pre-adv	The first time the nurse took him out of the lung , she said she 'd put him back for a second , if he got frightened .
cp17.1.0	ref	When Bobbie Evans smashed up his car , the Jaguar his wife Linda had given him for his last birthday , and himself quite thoroughly with it , driving back from an afternoon 's golf at Oakmont , it seemed to mark the end of a long , miswritten chapter in the social life of the community .
cp17.1.1	pre-adv	It seemed to mark the end of a long , miswritten chapter in the social life of the community , when Bobbie Evans smashed up his car , the Jaguar his wife Linda had given him for his last birthday , and himself quite thoroughly with it , driving back from an afternoon 's golf at Oakmont .
cp17.12.0	ref	`` Of course , there was nothing you could do , but you still ought to be ashamed of yourself for letting it happen '' , Mousie Chandler said to Linda Stuart .
cp17.12.1	quote	`` Of course , there was nothing you could do , but you still ought to be ashamed of yourself for letting it happen '' , said Mousie Chandler to Linda Stuart .
cp17.14.0	ref	Linda accepted the reproach , which was something she did rarely in all her life and most rarely in that summer of 1936 when she was by all odds the prettiest and brightest young woman west of the Allegheny Mountains , and John was surely one of the handsomer and brighter young men around Pittsburgh .
cp17.14.1	post-adj2	Linda accepted the reproach , which was something she did in all her life rarely and most rarely in that summer of 1936 when she was by all odds the prettiest and brightest young woman west of the Allegheny Mountains , and John was surely one of the handsomer and brighter young men around Pittsburgh .
cp17.15.0	ref	For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out two seasons before at the Golf Club to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs .
cp17.15.1	post-adv	For it ever since she had come out two seasons before at the Golf Club to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs had been John and Linda .
cp17.15.2	post-adj3	For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out at the Golf Club two seasons before to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs .
cp17.15.3	post-adj3	For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs at the Golf Club two seasons before .
cp17.15.4	post-adj3	For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out two seasons before to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs at the Golf Club .
cp17.15.5	post-adj3	For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs two seasons before at the Golf Club .
cp17.15.6	post-adj3	For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out at the Golf Club to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs two seasons before .
cp17.17.0	ref	You saw them always together those years .
cp17.17.1	post-adj3	You saw them together always those years .
cp17.17.2	post-adj3	You saw them those years together always .
cp17.17.3	post-adj3	You saw them always those years together .
cp17.17.4	post-adj3	You saw them , those years , always together .
cp17.17.5	post-adj3	You saw them together those years , always .
cp17.18.0	ref	You talked about John-and-Linda as an entity .
cp17.18.1	post-adj2	You talked as an entity about John-and-Linda .
cp17.19.0	ref	John-and-Linda were at Longue Vue last night ; John-and-Linda drove to Conneaut in three and a half hours .
cp17.19.1	post-adj2	John-and-Linda were last night at Longue Vue ; John-and-Linda drove to Conneaut in three and a half hours .
cp17.20.0	ref	Then there was a spat over something , as there had been lovers ' spats before ; only this one did n't heal .
cp17.20.1	post-adv	As there had been lovers ' spats before , then there was a spat over something ; only this one did n't heal .
cp17.21.0	ref	You still said `` John-and-Linda '' , but as if you were speaking of a national catastrophe such as the depression or Dillinger .
cp17.21.1	post-adv	As if you were speaking of a national catastrophe such as the depression or Dillinger you still said `` John-and-Linda '' , but .
cp17.23.0	ref	First , it came out after Mr. Cooper 's will was settled -- he had died the year before -- that John and his mother were n't rich any more .
cp17.23.1	post-adv	After Mr. Cooper 's will was settled -- he had died the year before -- first , it came out that John and his mother were n't rich any more .
cp17.25.0	ref	There was no connection between the two events , because Bobbie was n't rich , either , though he was more aggressive than John .
cp17.25.1	post-adv	There was no connection between the two events , because , though he was more aggressive than John , Bobbie was n't rich , either .
cp17.27.0	ref	Some people said Linda had just announced the engagement to jolt John into some action , but when John came home from a business trip to Cleveland with Edythe , with Edythe his bride , it could no longer be John-and-Linda even to sentimental wishful thinkers .
cp17.27.1	pre-adv	Some people said Linda had just announced the engagement to jolt John into some action , but it could no longer be John-and-Linda even to sentimental wishful thinkers , when John came home from a business trip to Cleveland with Edythe , with Edythe his bride .
cp17.30.0	ref	There was nothing specifically wrong with Edythe , but there was absolutely nothing right about her either .
cp17.30.1	post-adj2	There was nothing specifically wrong with Edythe , but there was either nothing right about her absolutely .
cp17.32.0	ref	`` Well , you should n't underestimate Edythe '' , Mousie said .
cp17.32.1	quote	`` Well , you should n't underestimate Edythe '' , said Mousie .
cp17.36.0	ref	John was at the church with Edythe .
cp17.36.1	post-adj2	John was with Edythe at the church .
cp17.42.0	ref	She did n't have a bad shape when you caught her at the pool at Longue Vue , but her bathing suits were far from smart .
cp17.42.1	post-adv	She when you caught her at the pool at Longue Vue did n't have a bad shape , but her bathing suits were far from smart .
cp17.43.0	ref	And you did n't see her much at Longue Vue or anywhere , for John had drifted away from the gang .
cp17.43.1	post-adj2	And you did n't see her at Longue Vue or anywhere much , for John had drifted away from the gang .
cp17.51.0	ref	It probably was n't hard for him to keep his nose to the grindstone with nothing but Edythe to come home to .
cp17.51.1	post-adj2	It probably was n't hard for him to keep his nose with nothing but Edythe to come home to to the grindstone .
cp17.52.0	ref	Though that may be unfair since Ben Cooper , John 's first son , came along early in 1938 , the cutest baby you ever saw and a blessing that he looked all Cooper from fontanel to pink toes , nary a trace of Edythe .
cp17.52.1	post-adv	Though that since Ben Cooper , John 's first son , came along early in 1938 , the cutest baby you ever saw and a blessing that he looked all Cooper from fontanel to pink toes , nary a trace of Edythe may be unfair .
cp17.52.2	post-adj2	Though that may be unfair since Ben Cooper , John 's first son , came early in 1938 along , the cutest baby you ever saw and a blessing that he looked all Cooper from fontanel to pink toes , nary a trace of Edythe .
cp17.55.0	ref	When there was bridge at Edythe 's house , the cards shuffled like wet graham crackers and the food probably was wet graham crackers .
cp17.55.1	pre-adv	The cards shuffled like wet graham crackers , when there was bridge at Edythe 's house , and the food probably was wet graham crackers .
cp17.56.0	ref	She managed a missionary drive for the church once and got the books so confused that old Mr. Webber , the eldest elder , who 'd never donated more than five dollars to anything , had to cough up five hundred dollars to avoid a scandal in what Edythe called `` the bosoms of the church '' .
cp17.56.1	post-adj2	She managed a missionary drive once for the church and got the books so confused that old Mr. Webber , the eldest elder , who 'd never donated more than five dollars to anything , had to cough up five hundred dollars to avoid a scandal in what Edythe called `` the bosoms of the church '' .
cp17.60.0	ref	He was an attentive and generous husband , overgenerous , a lot of people felt , because they knew that money must be a problem to him .
cp17.60.1	post-adv	He was an attentive and generous husband , overgenerous , because they knew that money must be a problem to him , a lot of people felt .
cp17.61.0	ref	But he got ahead in business : on leave from his job to an important Washington assignment during the war ; after the war back to the heir apparency of the steel company .
cp17.61.1	post-adj2	But he got in business ahead : on leave from his job to an important Washington assignment during the war ; after the war back to the heir apparency of the steel company .
cp17.63.0	ref	Bobbie had been successful , too , though he did n't match John 's pace , and after all he did n't need to , with all the Stuart money .
cp17.63.1	post-adv	Bobbie , though he did n't match John 's pace , and after all he did n't need to , with all the Stuart money , had been successful , too .
cp17.67.0	ref	`` Do n't think Linda could n't have got John back any time , if she 'd tried '' , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont .
cp17.67.1	dat-np-np	`` Do n't think Linda could n't have got any time back to John , if she 'd tried '' , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont .
cp17.67.2	post-adv	`` Do n't think Linda could n't , if she 'd tried , have got John back any time '' , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont .
cp17.67.3	post-adj2	`` Do n't think Linda could n't have got John any time back , if she 'd tried '' , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont .
cp17.69.0	ref	But now -- well , it would be a blessing , I think .
cp17.69.1	quote	But now -- well , it would be a blessing , think I .
cp17.72.0	ref	What she felt was a bone-deep loss with a sense of waste to it , not so much sorrow for handsome , ambitious Bobbie , but for the lost years that had been brought into high relief by his death .
cp17.72.1	post-adj2	What she felt was a bone-deep loss with a sense of waste to it , not so much sorrow for handsome , ambitious Bobbie , but for the lost years that had been brought by his death into high relief .
cp17.74.0	ref	It was up to her to save Poor John , dear John , to undo the wrong she had done , but she trembled at the decision as at the brink of a cold stream .
cp17.74.1	post-adj2	It was up to her to save Poor John , dear John , to undo the wrong she had done , but she trembled as at the brink of a cold stream at the decision .
cp17.77.0	ref	And Linda felt capable of capturing the affection of the children , anxious even , since she and Bobbie had had none of their own .
cp17.77.1	post-adv	Since she and Bobbie had had none of their own , and Linda felt capable of capturing the affection of the children , anxious even .
cp17.81.0	ref	Years of watching while Poor John struggled without the help and understanding of the kind of wife a man needed to get ahead .
cp17.81.1	post-adv	Years of while Poor John struggled without the help and understanding of the kind of wife a man needed to get ahead watching .
cp17.85.0	ref	So when old Mr. Lovejoy , the company president , talked about putting in a single sales manager for both branches after the head of the regular steels had gone with Carnegie-Illinois , it looked like the perfect chance for Bobbie .
cp17.85.1	post-adv	So when old Mr. Lovejoy , the company president , talked about after the head of the regular steels had gone with Carnegie-Illinois putting in a single sales manager for both branches , it looked like the perfect chance for Bobbie .
cp17.85.2	pre-adv	So it looked like the perfect chance for Bobbie , when old Mr. Lovejoy , the company president , talked about putting in a single sales manager for both branches after the head of the regular steels had gone with Carnegie-Illinois .
cp17.87.0	ref	She was almost sick when Bobbie came home with the news that Poor John had won the job .
cp17.87.1	post-adv	When Bobbie came home with the news that Poor John had won the job she was almost sick .
cp17.87.2	post-adj2	She was almost sick when Bobbie came with the news that Poor John had won the job home .
cp17.93.0	ref	Linda dragooned her uncle , Donald Murkland , into a lunch the next day to find out what had happened .
cp17.93.1	post-adj2	Linda dragooned her uncle , Donald Murkland , the next day into a lunch to find out what had happened .
cp17.98.0	ref	`` I think we 're agreed that he and Evans are equal in ability , so we have to look at the thing in terms of incentive .
cp17.98.1	post-adj2	`` I think we 're agreed that he and Evans are equal in ability , so we have to look in terms of incentive at the thing .
cp17.106.0	ref	After the surprise was over , Linda was almost as pleased as anyone with John 's good luck , though she agreed with Bobbie 's decision some months later to move to Funk Furnaces .
cp17.106.1	post-adv	Though she agreed with Bobbie 's decision some months later to move to Funk Furnaces , after the surprise was over , Linda was almost as pleased as anyone with John 's good luck .
cp17.106.2	pre-adv	Linda was almost as pleased as anyone with John 's good luck , though she agreed with Bobbie 's decision some months later to move to Funk Furnaces , after the surprise was over .
cp17.107.0	ref	The job at Funk was n't particularly better , but it got him away from being subordinate to John and assured him steady advancement , since Funk was owned to a large degree by various branches of Linda 's family .
cp17.107.1	dat-np-np	The job at Funk was n't particularly better , but it got him away from being subordinate to John and assured steady advancement to him , since Funk was owned to a large degree by various branches of Linda 's family .
cp17.107.2	post-adv	The job at Funk was n't particularly better , but , since Funk was owned to a large degree by various branches of Linda 's family , it got him away from being subordinate to John and assured him steady advancement .
cp17.109.0	ref	When he was made a vice president only a year after the new sales job , a leading business magazine ran his photograph with a brief biography in a series on national business leaders of the future .
cp17.109.1	pre-adv	A leading business magazine ran his photograph with a brief biography in a series on national business leaders of the future , when he was made a vice president only a year after the new sales job .
cp18.5.0	ref	I could get along without that three dollars .
cp18.5.1	post-adj2	I could get without that three dollars along .
cp18.7.0	ref	It was past midnight and we were in bed when the phone rang .
cp18.7.1	post-adv	It was past midnight and when the phone rang we were in bed .
cp18.10.0	ref	`` You scared me half to death '' , I said shakily .
cp18.10.1	quote	`` You scared me half to death '' , said I shakily .
cp18.16.0	ref	`` Oh , she would n't do that '' , I said .
cp18.16.1	quote	`` Oh , she would n't do that '' , said I .
cp18.18.0	ref	But if you 're worried you can go home and check '' -- `` I ca n't leave the party !
cp18.18.1	pre-adv	But you can go home and check if you 're worried '' -- `` I ca n't leave the party !
cp18.19.0	ref	We 're at Ken Thom 's apartment , and when one couple leaves early everything falls flat !
cp18.19.1	pre-adv	We 're at Ken Thom 's apartment , and everything falls flat when one couple leaves early !
cp18.22.0	ref	I 'll call you there in ten minutes '' -- `` I ca n't make it in ten minutes '' -- Wondering , as I said it , why I should make it at all .
cp18.22.1	post-adv	As I said it , I 'll call you there in ten minutes '' -- `` I ca n't make it in ten minutes '' -- Wondering why I should make it at all .
cp18.22.2	post-adj2	I 'll call you in ten minutes there '' -- `` I ca n't make it in ten minutes '' -- Wondering , as I said it , why I should make it at all .
cp18.23.0	ref	Why should I go over at midnight to check on Francie , when her parents did n't care enough to leave a party ?
cp18.23.1	post-adv	Why , when her parents did n't care enough to leave a party , should I go over at midnight to check on Francie ?
cp18.23.2	post-adj2	Why should I go at midnight over to check on Francie , when her parents did n't care enough to leave a party ?
cp18.32.0	ref	I drove off through the cool darkness to Nadine 's apartment and rang the bell , and in a few seconds a young girl opened the door .
cp18.32.1	post-adj2	I drove off to Nadine 's apartment through the cool darkness and rang the bell , and in a few seconds a young girl opened the door .
cp18.34.0	ref	`` It 's all right '' , I said , as she started to look scared .
cp18.34.1	post-adv	As she started to look scared , `` it 's all right '' , I said .
cp18.34.2	quote	`` It 's all right '' , said I , as she started to look scared .
cp18.40.0	ref	`` I have to get up early for church tomorrow '' , she went on .
cp18.40.1	post-adj3	`` I have to get up for church early tomorrow '' , she went on .
cp18.40.2	post-adj3	`` I have to get up tomorrow for church early '' , she went on .
cp18.40.3	post-adj3	`` I have to get up early tomorrow for church '' , she went on .
cp18.40.4	post-adj3	`` I have to get up tomorrow early for church '' , she went on .
cp18.40.5	post-adj3	`` I have to get up for church tomorrow early '' , she went on .
cp18.43.0	ref	`` That 's Mrs. Roberts again '' , I said .
cp18.43.1	quote	`` That 's Mrs. Roberts again '' , said I .
cp18.48.0	ref	There was a ragged edge to her voice now , as if she 'd been crying .
cp18.48.1	post-adv	As if she 'd been crying , there was a ragged edge to her voice now .
cp18.48.2	post-adj2	There was a ragged edge now to her voice , as if she 'd been crying .
cp18.49.0	ref	`` Wally 's drunk -- I 'll get him out of here as soon as I possibly can , but I do n't want Shirley to see him like this .
cp18.49.1	post-adj2	`` Wally 's drunk -- I 'll get him as soon as I possibly can out of here , but I do n't want Shirley to see him like this .
cp18.52.0	ref	She did n't even give me a chance to refuse .
cp18.52.1	dat-np-np	She did n't even give a chance to refuse to me .
cp18.56.0	ref	After I looked in at Francie , I went into the living room and waited .
cp18.56.1	pre-adv	I went into the living room and waited , after I looked in at Francie .
cp18.57.0	ref	I must have dozed off , because I came to with a start at the sound of voices .
cp18.57.1	post-adv	I must , because I came to with a start at the sound of voices , have dozed off .
cp18.57.2	post-adj2	I must have dozed off , because I came to at the sound of voices with a start .
cp18.58.0	ref	Nadine 's , shrill with anger -- Wally 's loud and thick -- As I went to the door I heard the clock strike two .
cp18.58.1	pre-adv	Nadine 's , shrill with anger -- Wally 's loud and thick -- I heard the clock strike two as I went to the door .
cp18.59.0	ref	I opened the door , and Wally stumbled in -- fast -- as if Nadine had pushed him .
cp18.59.1	post-adv	I opened the door , and -- as if Nadine had pushed him -- Wally stumbled in -- fast .
cp18.62.0	ref	Her skin was stretched so tight that her cheekbones stuck out , and if looks could kill , Wally would have been dead .
cp18.62.1	pre-adv	Her skin was stretched so tight that her cheekbones stuck out , and Wally would have been dead , if looks could kill .
cp18.65.0	ref	`` You 're crazy '' , Wally said thickly .
cp18.65.1	quote	`` You 're crazy '' , said Wally thickly .
cp18.75.0	ref	We 're ruined and he 's going to get out if I have to throw him down the stairs '' -- `` you 'd better simmer down '' , I said nervously .
cp18.75.1	post-adv	We 're ruined and he if I have to throw him down the stairs 's going to get out '' -- `` you 'd better simmer down '' , I said nervously .
cp18.75.2	quote	We 're ruined and he 's going to get out if I have to throw him down the stairs '' -- `` you 'd better simmer down '' , said I nervously .
cp18.78.0	ref	`` Now you just take it easy , and I 'll make you some tea '' -- `` Tea '' Nadine screeched .
cp18.78.1	dat-np-np	`` Now you just take it easy , and I 'll make some tea to you '' -- `` Tea '' Nadine screeched .
cp18.88.0	ref	She was coming to her senses enough to realize that you do n't go traipsing off anywhere at two in the morning .
cp18.88.1	post-adj2	She was coming enough to realize that you do n't go traipsing off anywhere at two in the morning to her senses .
cp18.89.0	ref	`` You go to bed '' , I said curtly .
cp18.89.1	quote	`` You go to bed '' , said I curtly .
cp18.90.0	ref	`` In the morning you and Wally can talk things out '' -- She collapsed against me , as if everything inside her snapped .
cp18.90.1	post-adv	`` In the morning you and Wally can talk things out '' -- as if everything inside her snapped , She collapsed against me .
cp18.91.0	ref	I got her into bed , and sat with her until she had sobbed herself out .
cp18.91.1	post-adv	I until she had sobbed herself out got her into bed , and sat with her .
cp18.92.0	ref	It was three o'clock before I figured it was all right to go .
cp18.92.1	post-adv	Before I figured it was all right to go it was three o'clock .
cp18.93.0	ref	I left her , a limp bundle of self-pity , shivering with terror because her bubble had burst around her .
cp18.93.1	post-adv	I left because her bubble had burst around her her , a limp bundle of self-pity , shivering with terror .
cp18.105.0	ref	I -- got fired yesterday for not attending to business '' -- Old Mr. Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and could n't get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired .
cp18.105.1	post-adv	I -- got fired yesterday for not attending to business '' -- Old Mr. Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired could n't get one .
cp18.105.2	post-adj2	I -- got fired for not attending to business yesterday '' -- Old Mr. Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and could n't get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired .
cp18.111.0	ref	I tried to quiet Nadine because the children were there .
cp18.111.1	post-adv	I tried because the children were there to quiet Nadine .
cp18.113.0	ref	`` Things may smooth over yet '' , Chris said , his nice lean face grave with honest concern .
cp18.113.1	quote	`` Things may smooth over yet '' , said Chris , his nice lean face grave with honest concern .
cp18.115.0	ref	Now maybe they 'd realize that life can be tough .
cp18.115.1	pre-adj2	Maybe now they 'd realize that life can be tough .
cp18.116.0	ref	When A bubble breaks , there 's nothing .
cp18.116.1	pre-adv	There 's nothing , when A bubble breaks .
cp18.125.0	ref	It was easy enough to say it , because of course we could n't spare a cent .
cp18.125.1	post-adv	Because of course we could n't spare a cent , it was easy enough to say it .
cp18.131.0	ref	It was incredible -- He gave me an embarrassed , pleading look .
cp18.131.1	dat-np-np	It was incredible -- He gave an embarrassed , pleading look to me .
cp18.133.0	ref	But it would only be for a couple of weeks -- until they get straightened out '' .
cp18.133.1	post-adv	But it -- until they get straightened out -- would only be for a couple of weeks '' .
cp18.135.0	ref	`` I wo n't do it '' , I said flatly .
cp18.135.1	quote	`` I wo n't do it '' , said I flatly .
cp18.137.0	ref	Well , now she can sleep in the street for all I care '' !
cp18.137.1	post-adj2	Well , now she can sleep for all I care in the street '' !
cp18.138.0	ref	`` That is n't like you , Janice '' , Chris said uncomfortably .
cp18.138.1	quote	`` That is n't like you , Janice '' , said Chris uncomfortably .
cp18.141.0	ref	But , darn it all , why should we help a couple of spoiled snobs who had looked down their noses at us ?
cp18.141.1	post-adj2	But , darn it all , why should we help a couple of spoiled snobs who had looked at us down their noses ?
cp18.149.0	ref	At least we 'll eat , I thought grimly as I put all the food away .
cp18.149.1	post-adv	As I put all the food away at least we 'll eat , I thought grimly .
cp18.149.2	quote	At least we 'll eat , thought I grimly as I put all the food away .
cp18.150.0	ref	While I worked , Nadine sat and cried .
cp18.150.1	pre-adv	Nadine sat and cried , while I worked .
cp18.151.0	ref	When she was n't crying , she was in our bedroom fighting with Wally .
cp18.151.1	pre-adv	She was in our bedroom fighting with Wally , when she was n't crying .
cp18.164.0	ref	`` You can get a job working in a grocery store , if nothing else '' .
cp18.164.1	post-adv	`` You , if nothing else , can get a job working in a grocery store '' .
cp18.165.0	ref	`` The high school kids have got everything sewed up '' , he said , a whine in his voice .
cp18.165.1	quote	`` The high school kids have got everything sewed up '' , said he , a whine in his voice .
cp18.166.0	ref	`` Those damn punks -- taking work away from men who need it '' .
cp18.166.1	post-adj2	`` Those damn punks -- taking work from men who need it away '' .
cp18.167.0	ref	`` By fall they 'll be back in school '' , I 'd say , trying to sound encouraging .
cp18.167.1	quote	`` By fall they 'll be back in school '' , 'd say I , trying to sound encouraging .
cp18.170.0	ref	I mentioned it to Chris one stifling hot night , when I had slipped outside for a breath of fresh air .
cp18.170.1	post-adj2	I mentioned it one stifling hot night , when I had slipped outside for a breath of fresh air to Chris .
cp19.5.0	ref	But the rest of it , the main part , was n't based on logic at all .
cp19.5.1	post-adj2	But the rest of it , the main part , was n't based at all on logic .
cp19.10.0	ref	Actually , I should n't complain , I told myself in the shaving mirror .
cp19.10.1	quote	Actually , I should n't complain , told I myself in the shaving mirror .
cp19.13.0	ref	Maybe I did n't see as much of Gladdy as I 'd like , but how much worse it would have been if I 'd had to board her out somewhere after Alice went -- send my daughter to an orphanage or a boarding-home .
cp19.13.1	post-adv	Maybe I did n't see as much of Gladdy as I 'd like , but how much worse it would if I 'd had to board her out somewhere after Alice went -- send my daughter to an orphanage or a boarding-home have been .
cp19.13.2	post-adv	Maybe I did n't see as much of Gladdy as I 'd like , but how much worse it would have been if I 'd had to after Alice went board her out somewhere -- send my daughter to an orphanage or a boarding-home .
cp19.17.0	ref	Growing up without a mother from the time she was three -- it was n't a good thing for a child , even knowing the kind of mother Alice had been .
cp19.17.1	post-adj2	Growing up from the time she was three without a mother -- it was n't a good thing for a child , even knowing the kind of mother Alice had been .
cp19.20.0	ref	If she 'd kept on as she 'd been going , the story I 'd told Gladdy would probably have been true by now , anyhow
cp19.20.1	pre-adv	The story I 'd told Gladdy would probably have been true by now , anyhow , if she 'd kept on as she 'd been going
cp19.20.2	post-adj2	If she 'd kept on as she 'd been going , the story I 'd told Gladdy would probably have been true anyhow , by now
cp19.24.0	ref	Oh , I knew that I could n't give myself all the credit for her decision .
cp19.24.1	dat-np-np	Oh , I knew that I could n't give all the credit for her decision to myself .
cp19.25.0	ref	I had a feeling that young Pete Michelson , the most promising intern at Fairview , had something to do with it , too .
cp19.25.1	post-adj2	I had a feeling that young Pete Michelson , the most promising intern at Fairview , had something to do too , with it .
cp19.26.0	ref	She 'd been out with Pete the night before and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little .
cp19.26.1	post-adj3	She 'd been with Pete out the night before and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little .
cp19.26.2	post-adj3	She 'd been the night before with Pete out and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little .
cp19.26.3	post-adj3	She 'd been out the night before with Pete and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little .
cp19.26.4	post-adj3	She 'd been the night before out with Pete and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little .
cp19.26.5	post-adj3	She 'd been with Pete the night before out and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little .
cp19.27.0	ref	But once I was alone again , driving to the hospital , the heaviness returned .
cp19.27.1	pre-adv	But the heaviness returned , once I was alone again , driving to the hospital .
cp19.28.0	ref	If she and Pete were really getting serious , I 'd have to do some hard thinking .
cp19.28.1	pre-adv	I 'd have to do some hard thinking , if she and Pete were really getting serious .
cp19.29.0	ref	Should I tell him the truth about Alice ?
cp19.29.1	dat-np-np	Should I tell the truth about Alice to him ?
cp19.30.0	ref	Did he have a right to know the secret I 'd kept from Gladdy all these years ?
cp19.30.1	post-adj2	Did he have a right to know the secret I 'd kept all these years from Gladdy ?
cp19.31.0	ref	The boys were already waiting in the corridor outside my office when I got to Fairview .
cp19.31.1	post-adv	The boys when I got to Fairview were already waiting in the corridor outside my office .
cp19.34.0	ref	Pete was down on Seven , Dick told me , and he 'd meet us there .
cp19.34.1	quote	Pete was down on Seven , told Dick me , and he 'd meet us there .
cp19.36.0	ref	Pete came to meet us when we stepped out of the elevator on Seven -- he 'd had a case of post-operative shock , but it was all taken care of now .
cp19.36.1	post-adv	When we stepped out of the elevator on Seven Pete came to meet us -- he 'd had a case of post-operative shock , but it was all taken care of now .
cp19.36.2	post-adj2	Pete came to meet us when we stepped on Seven out of the elevator -- he 'd had a case of post-operative shock , but it was all taken care of now .
cp19.38.0	ref	When we 'd finished our regular rounds , Pete pointed me toward the small ward at the end of the floor .
cp19.38.1	pre-adv	Pete pointed me toward the small ward at the end of the floor , when we 'd finished our regular rounds .
cp19.39.0	ref	`` Got a new one in last night '' , he said .
cp19.39.1	dat-np-np	`` Got last night in to a new one '' , he said .
cp19.39.2	quote	`` Got a new one in last night '' , said he .
cp19.50.0	ref	I looked at the chart for reassurance .
cp19.50.1	post-adj2	I looked for reassurance at the chart .
cp19.52.0	ref	She looked about sixty , though I recalled that the chart gave her age as forty-four .
cp19.52.1	post-adv	Though I recalled that the chart gave her age as forty-four , she looked about sixty .
cp19.61.0	ref	But if she was n't interested , she 'd just go back to the same life she 'd left .
cp19.61.1	pre-adv	But she 'd just go back to the same life she 'd left , if she was n't interested .
cp19.62.0	ref	Turning toward the patient again , I -- I ca n't describe what happened to me then , except to say that I felt sick .
cp19.62.1	post-adj2	Turning again toward the patient , I -- I ca n't describe what happened to me then , except to say that I felt sick .
cp19.76.0	ref	`` Have you spoken to a doctor about it '' ?
cp19.76.1	post-adj2	`` Have you spoken about it to a doctor '' ?
cp19.81.0	ref	Pete stood by with a slide and took the smear , sent it down to the lab with a request for the test .
cp19.81.1	post-adj2	Pete stood with a slide by and took the smear , sent it down to the lab with a request for the test .
cp19.82.0	ref	That done , I told Miss Groggins to take her patient back to bed and again put her out of my mind .
cp19.82.1	post-adj2	That done , I told Miss Groggins to take her patient to bed back and again put her out of my mind .
cp19.84.0	ref	Late in the afternoon , I was up on Seven again .
cp19.84.1	post-adj2	Late in the afternoon , I was again up on Seven .
cp19.87.0	ref	`` I 've got the results on the Bancroft smear test '' , he said .
cp19.87.1	quote	`` I 've got the results on the Bancroft smear test '' , said he .
cp19.96.0	ref	`` If you can keep her here that long '' , Pete said wryly .
cp19.96.1	post-adj2	`` If you can keep her that long here '' , Pete said wryly .
cp19.98.0	ref	Wants to get to her booze , I guess '' .
cp19.98.1	quote	Wants to get to her booze , guess I '' .
cp19.101.0	ref	We 'd been standing right outside Miss Bancroft 's door and as I went to turn the knob to enter , I was surprised to find that the door was slightly ajar .
cp19.101.1	pre-adv	We 'd been standing right outside Miss Bancroft 's door and I was surprised to find that the door was slightly ajar , as I went to turn the knob to enter .
cp19.103.0	ref	Her eyes opened as soon as she heard me , though , and once again , I felt an inward shiver .
cp19.103.1	post-adj2	Her eyes opened though , as soon as she heard me , and once again , I felt an inward shiver .
cp19.104.0	ref	`` I sure ca n't complain about the service in this place '' , she said .
cp19.104.1	quote	`` I sure ca n't complain about the service in this place '' , said she .
cp19.108.0	ref	`` I 've just been talking to Dr. Michelson '' , I said .
cp19.108.1	quote	`` I 've just been talking to Dr. Michelson '' , said I .
cp19.111.0	ref	But we would like your permission to do -- that is , to go further if it proves necessary '' .
cp19.111.1	post-adv	But we would like your permission to do -- that is , if it proves necessary to go further '' .
cp19.116.0	ref	Even if we do , you 'll be out of here in a week , probably '' .
cp19.116.1	pre-adv	You 'll be out of here in a week , probably , even if we do '' .
cp19.116.2	post-adj2	Even if we do , you 'll be out of here probably , in a week '' .
cp19.119.0	ref	I looked at her in amazement .
cp19.119.1	post-adj2	I looked in amazement at her .
cp19.120.0	ref	I 'd had patients who 'd refused surgery before , of course , but never one who did n't show , in one way or another , the reason why .
cp19.120.1	post-adj2	I 'd had patients who 'd refused surgery of course , before , but never one who did n't show , in one way or another , the reason why .
cp19.124.0	ref	`` You should n't tell your little secrets outside of the patient 's door '' , she said .
cp19.124.1	quote	`` You should n't tell your little secrets outside of the patient 's door '' , said she .
cp19.131.0	ref	Her little speech was totally out of character with the sort of person I thought she was .
cp19.131.1	post-adj2	Her little speech was with the sort of person I thought she was out of character totally .
cp19.133.0	ref	This was someone who 'd come down in the world , I thought .
cp19.133.1	quote	This was someone who 'd come down in the world , thought I .
cp19.135.0	ref	Again there was something familiar about her , something -- `` You have n't got cancer '' , I said as strongly as I could .
cp19.135.1	quote	Again there was something familiar about her , something -- `` You have n't got cancer '' , said I as strongly as I could .
cp19.137.0	ref	And even if '' -- `` Do n't give me a lot of talk , Joe '' .
cp19.137.1	dat-np-np	And even if '' -- `` Do n't give a lot of talk to me , Joe '' .
cp19.156.0	ref	As for coming back here -- well , I 'll tell you the truth , I did n't even know where I was when I came to .
cp19.156.1	dat-np-np	As for coming back here -- well , I 'll tell the truth to you , I did n't even know where I was when I came to .
cp19.156.2	post-adv	As for coming back here -- well , I 'll tell you the truth , I when I came to did n't even know where I was .
cp19.163.0	ref	I looked at the pathetic wreck of a woman before me .
cp19.163.1	post-adj2	I looked before me at the pathetic wreck of a woman .
cp19.166.0	ref	If I let her go , she 'd disappear once more .
cp19.166.1	pre-adv	She 'd disappear once more , if I let her go .
cp20.9.0	ref	Perhaps if I took off the aqua-lung I could swim better , love my woman better .
cp20.9.1	pre-adv	Perhaps I could swim better , love my woman better if I took off the aqua-lung .
cp20.11.0	ref	While a hazy part of my mind concentrated on swimming down , a clear part sorted over recent events , among them my only positive act in a long time .
cp20.11.1	pre-adv	A clear part sorted over recent events , among them my only positive act in a long time , while a hazy part of my mind concentrated on swimming down .
cp20.16.0	ref	Once before I had been to Paris , long before I married Valery .
cp20.16.1	post-adv	Once before I , long before I married Valery , had been to Paris .
cp20.18.0	ref	I was twenty-one back then , in the army , and fog put our plane down at Orly instead of Rhine-Main .
cp20.18.1	post-adj2	I was twenty-one in the army , back then , and fog put our plane down at Orly instead of Rhine-Main .
cp20.20.0	ref	I had a pocketful of money , which was unusual when I was in the army , and the plane would be grounded all night .
cp20.20.1	post-adv	I had a pocketful of money , which when I was in the army was unusual , and the plane would be grounded all night .
cp20.33.0	ref	Maybe her ravenous eating was n't grotesque because she was so positive about it .
cp20.33.1	post-adv	Because she was so positive about it maybe her ravenous eating was n't grotesque .
cp20.34.0	ref	When she had drained the last of the bottle and paid her bill , she came directly to my table and said : `` Handsome soldier , I have assuaged one hunger with food .
cp20.34.1	pre-adv	She came directly to my table and said : `` Handsome soldier , I have assuaged one hunger with food , when she had drained the last of the bottle and paid her bill .
cp20.34.2	post-adj2	When she had drained the last of the bottle and paid her bill , she came to my table directly and said : `` Handsome soldier , I have assuaged one hunger with food .
cp20.37.0	ref	`` Madame '' , I said with noblesse oblige because of the `` handsome '' -- `` yeah '' .
cp20.37.1	post-adj2	`` Madame '' , I said because of the `` handsome '' with noblesse oblige -- `` yeah '' .
cp20.42.0	ref	I got there on a Saturday evening .
cp20.42.1	post-adj2	I got on a Saturday evening there .
cp20.49.0	ref	The next morning a little cognac made me feel better -- but what can you do in Paris on Sunday morning ?
cp20.49.1	post-adj2	The next morning a little cognac made me feel better -- but what can you do on Sunday morning in Paris ?
cp20.55.0	ref	I was turning over the idea of a good debauchery when I dozed off .
cp20.55.1	post-adv	I when I dozed off was turning over the idea of a good debauchery .
cp20.57.0	ref	My head was clear , my thinking sober and I was reconciled to this Paris idea as a flop on top of all my others .
cp20.57.1	post-adj2	My head was clear , my thinking sober and I was reconciled as a flop on top of all my others to this Paris idea .
cp20.61.0	ref	I walked around breathing the cold wine of the air until I found a park , and I sat down on a snowy bench where the light was dim and came from the sky .
cp20.61.1	post-adv	Until I found a park I walked around breathing the cold wine of the air , and I sat down on a snowy bench where the light was dim and came from the sky .
cp20.66.0	ref	She saw me and sat down beside me , three feet away .
cp20.66.1	post-adj2	She saw me and sat down three feet away , beside me .
cp20.68.0	ref	It gave her poise and posture .
cp20.68.1	dat-np-np	It gave poise and posture to her .
cp20.70.0	ref	It gave her propriety .
cp20.70.1	dat-np-np	It gave propriety to her .
cp20.71.0	ref	It gave her the right to sit down beside me , back straight , one hand out on the handle .
cp20.71.1	dat-np-np	It gave the right to sit down beside me , back straight , one hand out on the handle to her .
cp20.84.0	ref	`` Well -- women and unhappiness go together '' , I observed profoundly , adding , `` You can wager your derriere on that '' .
cp20.84.1	quote	`` Well -- women and unhappiness go together '' , observed profoundly , adding I , `` You can wager your derriere on that '' .
cp20.92.0	ref	`` Now is n't it better to smile '' ? She asked .
cp20.92.1	quote	`` Now is n't it better to smile '' ? asked she .
cp20.93.0	ref	Because I liked this sad person so much , I said , `` Will you have a drink with me '' ?
cp20.93.1	pre-adv	I said , `` Will you have a drink with me '' , because I liked this sad person so much ?
cp20.97.0	ref	`` I 'm sorry I have n't got a glass '' , I said .
cp20.97.1	quote	`` I 'm sorry I have n't got a glass '' , said I .
cp20.108.0	ref	We finished the bottle -- I had n't had a lot out of it earlier -- not speaking much to each other , and we stayed sober .
cp20.108.1	post-adj2	We finished the bottle -- I had n't had a lot earlier out of it -- not speaking much to each other , and we stayed sober .
cp20.110.0	ref	We seemed to be drowsing , sadly , soberly , in the cold , cold air while the snow fell .
cp20.110.1	post-adv	We seemed to while the snow fell be drowsing , sadly , soberly , in the cold , cold air .
cp20.110.2	post-adj2	We seemed to be drowsing , in the cold , cold air , sadly , soberly while the snow fell .
cp20.111.0	ref	Then she said , `` Allons '' , and we got up and went to my hotel without another word .
cp20.111.1	post-adj2	Then she said , `` Allons '' , and we got up and went without another word to my hotel .
cp20.115.0	ref	She had a funny little scar on her stomach , on the left side .
cp20.115.1	post-adj2	She had a funny little scar on the left side , on her stomach .
cp20.127.0	ref	I called downstairs for food and a toothbrush for her .
cp20.127.1	post-adj2	I called for food and a toothbrush for her downstairs .
cp20.128.0	ref	She came out pink from a hot bath , and I gave her my robe .
cp20.128.1	dat-np-np	She came out pink from a hot bath , and I gave my robe to her .
cp20.131.0	ref	I gave it to the woman .
cp20.131.1	dat-np-pp	I gave the woman it .
cp20.139.0	ref	The coffee was n't very hot though , made in a filter pot , but it was good .
cp20.139.1	post-adv	Though , made in a filter pot the coffee was n't very hot , but it was good .
cp20.141.0	ref	As we ate , we talked .
cp20.141.1	pre-adv	We talked , as we ate .
cp20.144.0	ref	`` You are very tactful , do you know , Stephen '' , she remarked .
cp20.144.1	quote	`` You are very tactful , do you know , Stephen '' , remarked she .
cp20.147.0	ref	I raised my eyes to look at her in the mirror .
cp20.147.1	post-adj2	I raised my eyes to look in the mirror at her .
cp20.162.0	ref	We went to the Louvre for a few hours , then by Metro to a cabaret in Montmartre .
cp20.162.1	post-adj2	We went for a few hours to the Louvre , then by Metro to a cabaret in Montmartre .
cp20.165.0	ref	The sommelier brought the wine first , a magnum instead of the bottle I had ordered .
cp20.165.1	dat-np-np	The sommelier brought a magnum instead of the bottle I had ordered first , to the wine .
cp21.2.0	ref	She would not stop to read them in American Express , as many were doing , sitting on benches or leaning against the walls , but pushed her way out into the street .
cp21.2.1	post-adv	She would not stop , as many were doing , to read them in American Express sitting on benches or leaning against the walls , but pushed her way out into the street .
cp21.5.0	ref	In her mind 's eye -- her imagination responding fully , almost exhaustingly , to these shores ' peculiar powers of stimulation -- she saw the city as from above , telescoped on its great bare plains that the ruins marked , aqueducts and tombs , here a cypress , there a pine , and all around the low blue hills .
cp21.5.1	post-adj2	In her mind 's eye -- her imagination responding to these shores ' peculiar powers of stimulation fully , almost exhaustingly -- she saw the city as from above , telescoped on its great bare plains that the ruins marked , aqueducts and tombs , here a cypress , there a pine , and all around the low blue hills .
cp21.9.0	ref	England , France , Germany , Switzerland , and Italy had all been rendered for her time and again , and between the prescribed hours of pills and tonics , she had conceived a dreamy passion by lamplight , to see all these places with her own eyes .
cp21.9.1	post-adj2	England , France , Germany , Switzerland , and Italy had all been rendered time and again for her , and between the prescribed hours of pills and tonics , she had conceived a dreamy passion by lamplight , to see all these places with her own eyes .
cp21.12.0	ref	So here it was , here was Italy , anyway , and terribly noisy .
cp21.12.1	pre-adj2	Here so it was , here was Italy , anyway , and terribly noisy .
cp21.14.0	ref	Cars , taxis , buses , and motorscooters all went plunging at once down the narrow length of it or swerving perilously around a fountain .
cp21.14.1	post-adj2	Cars , taxis , buses , and motorscooters all went plunging down the narrow length of it at once or swerving perilously around a fountain .
cp21.15.0	ref	Shoals of tourists went by her in national groups -- English school girls in blue uniforms , German boys with cameras attached , smartly dressed Americans looking in shop windows .
cp21.15.1	post-adj2	Shoals of tourists went in national groups -- English school girls in blue uniforms , German boys with cameras attached , smartly dressed Americans looking in shop windows by her .
cp21.18.0	ref	Something special was going on here just now -- the annual display of azalea plants .
cp21.18.1	post-adj2	Something special was going on just now here -- the annual display of azalea plants .
cp21.19.0	ref	She had heard about it the night before at her hotel .
cp21.19.1	post-adj3	She had heard the night before about it at her hotel .
cp21.19.2	post-adj3	She had heard at her hotel the night before about it .
cp21.19.3	post-adj3	She had heard about it at her hotel the night before .
cp21.19.4	post-adj3	She had heard at her hotel about it the night before .
cp21.19.5	post-adj3	She had heard the night before at her hotel about it .
cp21.21.0	ref	The azaleas were as large as shrubs , and their myriad blooms , many still tight in the bud , ranged in color from purple through fuchsia and rose to the palest pink , along with many white ones too .
cp21.21.1	post-adj3	The azaleas were as large as shrubs , and their myriad blooms , many still tight in the bud , ranged from purple through fuchsia and rose to the palest pink , along with many white ones in color too .
cp21.21.2	post-adj3	The azaleas were as large as shrubs , and their myriad blooms , many still tight in the bud , ranged too from purple through fuchsia and rose to the palest pink , along with many white ones in color .
cp21.21.3	post-adj3	The azaleas were as large as shrubs , and their myriad blooms , many still tight in the bud , ranged in color too from purple through fuchsia and rose to the palest pink , along with many white ones .
cp21.21.4	post-adj3	The azaleas were as large as shrubs , and their myriad blooms , many still tight in the bud , ranged too in color from purple through fuchsia and rose to the palest pink , along with many white ones .
cp21.21.5	post-adj3	The azaleas were as large as shrubs , and their myriad blooms , many still tight in the bud , ranged from purple through fuchsia and rose to the palest pink , along with many white ones too in color .
cp21.22.0	ref	Marvelous , thought Theresa , climbing in her portly , well-bred way , for she was someone who had learned that if you only move slowly enough you have time to notice everything .
cp21.22.1	pre-adv	Marvelous , thought Theresa , climbing in her portly , well-bred way , for she was someone who had learned that you have time to notice everything , if you only move slowly enough .
cp21.23.0	ref	In Rome , all over Europe , she intended to move very slowly indeed .
cp21.23.1	pre-adj2	All over Europe , in Rome , she intended to move very slowly indeed .
cp21.27.0	ref	The sun warmed her , as it seemed to be warming everything , perhaps even the underside of stones or the chill insides of churches .
cp21.27.1	post-adv	As it seemed to be warming everything , perhaps even the underside of stones or the chill insides of churches , the sun warmed her .
cp21.42.0	ref	Cousin Emma and Cousin Elec , brother and sister -- unmarried , devoted , aging -- had lived next door to the Stubblefields in Tuxapoka from time immemorial until the Stubblefields had moved to Montgomery fifteen years ago .
cp21.42.1	post-adj2	Cousin Emma and Cousin Elec , brother and sister -- unmarried , devoted , aging -- had lived next door to the Stubblefields from time immemorial until the Stubblefields had moved to Montgomery fifteen years ago in Tuxapoka .
cp21.43.0	ref	Two days before he was taken sick , Cousin Elec was out worrying about what too much rain might do to his sweetpeas , and Cousin Elec had always preserved in the top drawer of his secretary a mother-of-pearl paper knife which Theresa had coveted as a child and which he had promised she could have when he died .
cp21.43.1	post-adv	Two days before he was taken sick , Cousin Elec was out worrying about what too much rain might do to his sweetpeas , and Cousin Elec had always preserved in the top drawer of his secretary a mother-of-pearl paper knife which Theresa had coveted as a child and which he had promised she when he died could have .
cp21.44.0	ref	I 'm supposed to care as much now as then , as much here as there , she realized , with a sigh .
cp21.44.1	post-adj3	I 'm supposed to care now as much as then , as much here as there , she realized , with a sigh .
cp21.44.2	post-adj3	I 'm supposed to care as then now as much , as much here as there , she realized , with a sigh .
cp21.44.3	post-adj3	I 'm supposed to care as much as then now , as much here as there , she realized , with a sigh .
cp21.44.4	post-adj3	I 'm supposed to care as then as much now , as much here as there , she realized , with a sigh .
cp21.44.5	post-adj3	I 'm supposed to care now as then as much , as much here as there , she realized , with a sigh .
cp21.45.0	ref	This letter would have got to me if she had n't even put Rome , Italy , on it .
cp21.45.1	post-adv	This letter would if she had n't even put Rome , Italy , on it have got to me .
cp21.47.0	ref	But alas George , when he had written , had only just returned from going to Tuxapoka to Cousin Elec 's funeral .
cp21.47.1	pre-adv	But alas George had only just returned from going to Tuxapoka to Cousin Elec 's funeral , when he had written .
cp21.49.0	ref	All the fine old stock was dying out , look at the world today .
cp21.49.1	post-adj2	All the fine old stock was dying out , look today at the world .
cp21.57.0	ref	As for Cousin Alexander Carraway , the only thing Theresa could remember at the moment about him -LRB- except his paper knife -RRB- was that he had had exceptionally long hands and feet and one night about one o'clock in the morning the whole Stubblefield family had been aroused to go next door at Cousin Emma 's call -- first Papa , then Mother , then Theresa and George .
cp21.57.1	post-adj2	As for Cousin Alexander Carraway , the only thing Theresa could remember about him at the moment -LRB- except his paper knife -RRB- was that he had had exceptionally long hands and feet and one night about one o'clock in the morning the whole Stubblefield family had been aroused to go next door at Cousin Emma 's call -- first Papa , then Mother , then Theresa and George .
cp21.59.0	ref	He had hobbled downstairs into the parlor , in his agony , and was sitting , wrapped in his bathrobe , on a footstool .
cp21.59.1	post-adj3	He had hobbled into the parlor downstairs , in his agony , and was sitting , wrapped in his bathrobe , on a footstool .
cp21.59.2	post-adj3	He had hobbled in his agony into the parlor , downstairs , and was sitting , wrapped in his bathrobe , on a footstool .
cp21.59.3	post-adj3	He had hobbled downstairs in his agony , into the parlor , and was sitting , wrapped in his bathrobe , on a footstool .
cp21.59.4	post-adj3	He had hobbled , in his agony , downstairs into the parlor , and was sitting , wrapped in his bathrobe , on a footstool .
cp21.59.5	post-adj3	He had hobbled into the parlor , in his agony downstairs , and was sitting , wrapped in his bathrobe , on a footstool .
cp21.61.0	ref	They all surrounded him , the family circle , Theresa and George as solemn as if they were watching the cat have kittens , and Cousin Emma running back and forth with a kettle of hot water which she poured steaming into a white enamelled pan .
cp21.61.1	post-adj2	They all surrounded him , the family circle , Theresa and George as solemn as if they were watching the cat have kittens , and Cousin Emma running with a kettle of hot water which she poured steaming into a white enamelled pan back and forth .
cp21.63.0	ref	`` I hate to call the doctor but if this keeps up I 'll just have to !
cp21.63.1	pre-adv	`` I hate to call the doctor but I 'll just have to if this keeps up !
cp21.65.0	ref	`` You might treat it like the hiccups '' , said Papa .
cp21.65.1	iquote	`` You might treat it like the hiccups '' , Papa said .
cp21.67.0	ref	`` I just hope this happens to you someday '' , said Cousin Elec , who was not at his best .
cp21.67.1	post-adj2	`` I just hope this happens someday to you '' , said Cousin Elec , who was not at his best .
cp21.69.0	ref	He was younger than Theresa : she remembered looking down and seeing his great round eyes , while at the same time she was dimly aware that her mother and father were not unamused .
cp21.69.1	post-adv	He was younger than Theresa : while at the same time she was dimly aware that her mother and father were not unamused , she remembered looking down and seeing his great round eyes .
cp21.71.0	ref	Now , here they both were , still the same , George full of round-eyed woe , and Cousin Emma in despair .
cp21.71.1	pre-adj2	Here , now they both were , still the same , George full of round-eyed woe , and Cousin Emma in despair .
cp21.81.0	ref	`` I hope if you have any ideas along these lines you will write me about them .
cp21.81.1	pre-adv	`` I hope you will write me about them if you have any ideas along these lines .
cp21.82.0	ref	I may settle on some makeshift arrangements for the summer and wait until you return in the fall so we can work out together the best . ''
cp21.82.1	post-adv	I may until you return in the fall settle on some makeshift arrangements for the summer and wait so we can work out together the best . ''
cp21.82.2	post-adv	I so we can work out together the best may settle on some makeshift arrangements for the summer and wait until you return in the fall . ''
cp21.82.3	post-adj2	I may settle for the summer on some makeshift arrangements and wait until you return in the fall so we can work out together the best . ''
cp21.85.0	ref	She got up , standing uncertainly for a moment , then moving aside to let go past her , talking , a group of young men .
cp21.85.1	post-adj2	She got up , standing for a moment uncertainly , then moving aside to let go past her , talking , a group of young men .
cp21.95.0	ref	There she walked to the far left and leaned on a vacant section of banister , while the vendor picked himself another well-dressed American lady , carrying a camera and a handsome alligator bag , ascending the steps alone .
cp21.95.1	post-adv	While the vendor picked himself another well-dressed American lady , carrying a camera and a handsome alligator bag , ascending the steps alone , there she walked to the far left and leaned on a vacant section of banister .
cp21.98.0	ref	She cast about as though looking for a policeman : this really should n't be allowed !
cp21.98.1	post-adv	As though looking for a policeman she cast about : this really should n't be allowed !
cp21.99.0	ref	Finally , she scurried away up the steps .
cp21.99.1	post-adj2	Finally , she scurried up the steps away .
cp21.101.0	ref	They were even , Anne and George , probably thinking themselves very considerate in not hinting that she really should cut out `` one or two countries '' and come home in August to get Cousin Emma 's house ready before the teachers came to Tuxapoka in September .
cp21.101.1	post-adv	They were even , Anne and George , probably thinking themselves very considerate in not hinting that she really should cut out `` one or two countries '' and come home in August before the teachers came to Tuxapoka in September to get Cousin Emma 's house ready .
cp21.101.2	post-adj2	They were probably , Anne and George , even thinking themselves very considerate in not hinting that she really should cut out `` one or two countries '' and come home in August to get Cousin Emma 's house ready before the teachers came to Tuxapoka in September .
cp21.103.0	ref	The trouble is , Theresa thought , that while everything that happens there is supposed to matter supremely , nothing here is supposed even to exist .
cp21.103.1	pre-adv	The trouble is , Theresa thought , that nothing here is supposed even to exist , while everything that happens there is supposed to matter supremely .
cp21.104.0	ref	They would not care if all of Europe were to sink into the ocean tomorrow .
cp21.104.1	post-adj2	They would not care if all of Europe were to sink tomorrow into the ocean .
cp21.106.0	ref	It would have been exactly the same to them if I had read through all twenty-six volumes of Elsie Dinsmore .
cp21.106.1	post-adv	It would if I had read through all twenty-six volumes of Elsie Dinsmore have been exactly the same to them .
cp21.108.0	ref	Then , with a motion so suddenly violent that she amazed herself , she tore them in two .
cp21.108.1	pre-adj2	With a motion so suddenly violent that she amazed herself , then , she tore them in two .
cp21.110.0	ref	She became aware that two Italian workmen , carrying a large azalea pot , were standing before her and wanted her to move so that they could begin arranging a new row of the display .
cp21.110.1	post-adv	She became aware that two Italian workmen , carrying a large azalea pot , were standing before her and wanted her so that they could begin arranging a new row of the display to move .
cp22.4.0	ref	Just as it has its Susan Dolan , though nobody 'd ever bothered to tell me that .
cp22.4.1	dat-np-np	Just as it has its Susan Dolan , though nobody 'd ever bothered to tell that to me .
cp22.6.0	ref	They even talked about Lucille down at the Young Christians ' League where I spent a lot of time in Bible classes and helping out with the office work for our foreign mission .
cp22.6.1	post-adj2	They even talked down at the Young Christians ' League where I spent a lot of time in Bible classes and helping out with the office work for our foreign mission about Lucille .
cp22.9.0	ref	Even if they ever did say anything about people like Lucille Warren , I know they would n't have dreamed of saying it in front of me .
cp22.9.1	pre-adv	I know they would n't have dreamed of saying it in front of me , even if they ever did say anything about people like Lucille Warren .
cp22.12.0	ref	I asked him about it one night while we were sitting in his truck .
cp22.12.1	post-adv	While we were sitting in his truck I asked him about it one night .
cp22.12.2	post-adj2	I asked him one night about it while we were sitting in his truck .
cp22.14.0	ref	He gave me a straight , honest answer .
cp22.14.1	dat-np-np	He gave a straight , honest answer to me .
cp22.35.0	ref	She would n't have , even if he 'd asked her .
cp22.35.1	post-adv	She would n't , even if he 'd asked her , have .
cp22.36.0	ref	But he would n't ask her -- he was n't the kind of man who would force his wife to submit to him against her will .
cp22.36.1	post-adj2	But he would n't ask her -- he was n't the kind of man who would force his wife to submit against her will to him .
cp22.37.0	ref	And he would n't leave her either -- he 'd told me that .
cp22.37.1	dat-np-np	And he would n't leave her either -- he 'd told that to me .
cp22.41.0	ref	It was weeks before we even kissed for the first time .
cp22.41.1	post-adv	Before we even kissed for the first time it was weeks .
cp22.46.0	ref	`` It 's so crazy '' , I told him once .
cp22.46.1	quote	`` It 's so crazy '' , told I him once .
cp22.53.0	ref	`` And '' , I was ticking off the items on my fingers , `` swears too much and goes out with the boys , whoever they are , too much , and who ever goes to church and wo n't even listen when I try to persuade him to come back to the fold '' .
cp22.53.1	post-adv	`` And '' , I was ticking off the items on my fingers , `` swears too much and goes out with the boys , whoever they are , too much , and who ever goes to church and when I try to persuade him to come back to the fold wo n't even listen '' .
cp22.57.0	ref	`` And never show my face or my truck around here again '' .
cp22.57.1	post-adj2	`` And never show my face or my truck again around here '' .
cp22.68.0	ref	I huddled miserably beside him in the truck .
cp22.68.1	post-adj3	I huddled beside him miserably in the truck .
cp22.68.2	post-adj3	I huddled in the truck beside him miserably .
cp22.68.3	post-adj3	I huddled miserably in the truck beside him .
cp22.68.4	post-adj3	I huddled in the truck miserably beside him .
cp22.68.5	post-adj3	I huddled beside him in the truck miserably .
cp22.72.0	ref	But then he had said , `` All right , kid , if that 's how you want it , that 's how it 'll be '' .
cp22.72.1	post-adv	But then he , if that 's how you want it , had said , `` All right , kid that 's how it 'll be '' .
cp22.72.2	pre-adv	But then he had said , `` All right , kid that 's how it 'll be , if that 's how you want it '' .
cp22.76.0	ref	So one week later , I surrendered to him in the little motel on Route 10 .
cp22.76.1	post-adj2	So one week later , I surrendered in the little motel on Route 10 to him .
cp22.79.0	ref	And , though at the time I blushed to admit it even to myself , there was in me a growing desire , a sexual awareness , that Johnnie had set in motion , an awareness that no other man had ever triggered .
cp22.79.1	pre-adv	And there was in me a growing desire , a sexual awareness , that Johnnie had set in motion , an awareness that no other man had ever triggered , though at the time I blushed to admit it even to myself .
cp22.81.0	ref	Astonishingly enough , it was my own voice I heard there in the darkness , begging this man to make love to me .
cp22.81.1	post-adj2	Astonishingly enough , it was my own voice I heard in the darkness there , begging this man to make love to me .
cp22.84.0	ref	Outside , in the summertime fields behind the motel , a thousand crickets serenaded us .
cp22.84.1	pre-adj2	In the summertime fields behind the motel , outside , a thousand crickets serenaded us .
cp22.97.0	ref	It 's never wrong if love is real '' .
cp22.97.1	post-adv	If love is real it 's never wrong '' .
cp22.103.0	ref	I had also thought a lot about how God must look on true love , and so in a way I was keeping my promise to God , my promise to remain pure until I was married .
cp22.103.1	post-adv	I had also thought a lot about how God must look on true love , and so in a way I was keeping my promise to God , my promise until I was married to remain pure .
cp22.104.0	ref	I was practically a bride , after all .
cp22.104.1	post-adj2	I was after all a bride , practically .
cp22.105.0	ref	There would have been a ceremony if it had been possible .
cp22.105.1	post-adv	There would if it had been possible have been a ceremony .
cp22.111.0	ref	Just because he was honorable enough to want to continue supporting his two children , as any decent man would , that was no reason he should be denied his own small share of happiness too .
cp22.111.1	pre-adv	As any decent man would , that was no reason he should be denied his own small share of happiness too , just because he was honorable enough to want to continue supporting his two children .
cp22.111.2	pre-adv	Just because he was honorable enough to want to continue supporting his two children that was no reason he should be denied his own small share of happiness too , as any decent man would .
cp22.112.0	ref	And if I could contribute to that , I 'd do it .
cp22.112.1	pre-adv	And I 'd do it , if I could contribute to that .
cp22.114.0	ref	No price is too high when true love is at stake .
cp22.114.1	post-adv	When true love is at stake no price is too high .
cp22.116.0	ref	I 'd never even petted with a boy , and after I met Johnnie he never touched me for the longest while , not until I all but threw myself at him .
cp22.116.1	pre-adv	I 'd never even petted with a boy , and he never touched me for the longest while , not until I all but threw myself at him after I met Johnnie .
cp22.121.0	ref	She 'd have gotten him , if I had n't stopped her .
cp22.121.1	post-adv	She 'd , if I had n't stopped her , have gotten him .
cp22.135.0	ref	I 'd been seeing Johnnie almost a year now , but I still did n't want to leave him for five whole days .
cp22.135.1	post-adj2	I 'd been seeing Johnnie now almost a year , but I still did n't want to leave him for five whole days .
cp22.136.0	ref	But I had looked forward so much to being with this church group .
cp22.136.1	post-adj3	But I had looked so much forward to being with this church group .
cp22.136.2	post-adj3	But I had looked to being with this church group so much forward .
cp22.136.3	post-adj3	But I had looked forward to being with this church group so much .
cp22.136.4	post-adj3	But I had looked to being with this church group forward so much .
cp22.136.5	post-adj3	But I had looked so much to being with this church group forward .
cp22.143.0	ref	He looked very different from Johnnie -- in fact , he looked sort of like me .
cp22.143.1	post-adj2	He looked very different from Johnnie -- in fact , he looked like me sort of .
cp22.147.0	ref	Outside the hall , I anxiously looked around for her , then all at once there was a hand on my elbow .
cp22.147.1	post-adj2	Outside the hall , I anxiously looked for her around , then all at once there was a hand on my elbow .
cp22.151.0	ref	`` Well , I should find Alma '' -- I began .
cp22.151.1	quote	`` Well , I should find Alma '' -- began I .
cp22.153.0	ref	Come along with me '' .
cp22.153.1	post-adj2	Come with me along '' .
cp22.159.0	ref	But when Johnnie disguised the taste with ginger ale , I enjoyed it .
cp22.159.1	pre-adv	But I enjoyed it , when Johnnie disguised the taste with ginger ale .
cp22.160.0	ref	Of course I enjoyed 'most anything if I did it with Johnnie .
cp22.160.1	post-adv	If I did it with Johnnie of course I enjoyed 'most anything .
cp22.162.0	ref	But that was only natural , I decided ; surely he was still resting snugly in my heart .
cp22.162.1	quote	But that was only natural , decided I ; surely he was still resting snugly in my heart .
cp22.163.0	ref	`` I do n't see Alma anywhere '' , I said .
cp22.163.1	quote	`` I do n't see Alma anywhere '' , said I .
cp22.173.0	ref	But at least come along while I get lubricated '' .
cp22.173.1	post-adv	While I get lubricated but at least come along '' .
cp23.7.0	ref	`` You share a refrigerator '' , Mrs. Kirby had said , and somehow , at midnight , after the long drive from New York in pelting rain , that had sounded reasonable .
cp23.7.1	quote	`` You share a refrigerator '' , had said Mrs. Kirby , and somehow , at midnight , after the long drive from New York in pelting rain , that had sounded reasonable .
cp23.13.0	ref	Ah , yes -- his half of a refrigerator stood outside , on the `` curving veranda '' between Unit Number Three and Unit Number Four .
cp23.13.1	post-adj2	Ah , yes -- his half of a refrigerator stood on the `` curving veranda '' between Unit Number Three and Unit Number Four , outside .
cp23.16.0	ref	This vacation had seemed like a good idea last week , when his doctor had prescribed it .
cp23.16.1	post-adj2	This vacation had seemed last week , when his doctor had prescribed it like a good idea .
cp23.21.0	ref	The others will make you a little more comfortable until you get it licked .
cp23.21.1	post-adv	The others until you get it licked will make you a little more comfortable .
cp23.26.0	ref	He had caught , too , like an ailment , a confirmed distrust of women .
cp23.26.1	post-adj2	He had caught , like an ailment , too , a confirmed distrust of women .
cp23.27.0	ref	Once burned -- scalded , really , because Vivian had given him every encouragement -- forever shy .
cp23.27.1	dat-np-np	Once burned -- scalded , really , because Vivian had given every encouragement to him -- forever shy .
cp23.29.0	ref	Meanwhile , he had this miserable cold , and as he leaned against the refrigerator , watching the rain make sandy puddles at his feet , the doctor 's prescription for lots of sun seemed like a hollow mockery .
cp23.29.1	pre-adv	Meanwhile , he had this miserable cold , and the doctor 's prescription for lots of sun seemed like a hollow mockery , as he leaned against the refrigerator , watching the rain make sandy puddles at his feet .
cp23.35.0	ref	`` I hope so '' , he said .
cp23.35.1	quote	`` I hope so '' , said he .
cp23.43.0	ref	As for its being fine , day after tomorrow , he had the unhappy conviction that it would never be fine again , with Vivian lost to him forever .
cp23.43.1	post-adv	As for its being fine , day after tomorrow , he had the unhappy conviction that it , with Vivian lost to him forever , would never be fine again .
cp23.43.2	pre-adv	He had the unhappy conviction that it would never be fine again , with Vivian lost to him forever , as for its being fine , day after tomorrow .
cp23.45.0	ref	All Charlie could look forward to was a yellow pill at noon , a salami sandwich for lunch , and a lonely old age -- if he lived that long .
cp23.45.1	post-adj2	All Charlie could look to forward was a yellow pill at noon , a salami sandwich for lunch , and a lonely old age -- if he lived that long .
cp23.50.0	ref	He thought about it for a minute , could find no reasonable explanation for the presence of a sweater in the refrigerator , got the salami , bread , and a Bermuda onion , and put the whole thing out of his mind .
cp23.50.1	post-adj2	He thought for a minute about it , could find no reasonable explanation for the presence of a sweater in the refrigerator , got the salami , bread , and a Bermuda onion , and put the whole thing out of his mind .
cp23.61.0	ref	Must have really smelled up her sweater , he thought , and wondered idly just why she kept the sweater fast-frozen .
cp23.61.1	quote	Must have really smelled up her sweater , thought , and wondered he idly just why she kept the sweater fast-frozen .
cp23.62.0	ref	But then , as he well knew , women are not guided by logic or common sense .
cp23.62.1	pre-adv	But then women are not guided by logic or common sense , as he well knew .
cp23.66.0	ref	Now , if this were Vivian next door to him and if , for some obscure female reason , she kept her clothes in the refrigerator , they would not be pink .
cp23.66.1	pre-adv	Now they would not be pink , if this were Vivian next door to him and if , for some obscure female reason , she kept her clothes in the refrigerator .
cp23.83.0	ref	You want to watch out that you do n't get burned to an ash , first sunny day .
cp23.83.1	post-adj2	You want to watch out that you do n't get burned first sunny day , to an ash .
cp23.90.0	ref	`` I spoke to the fellow next door , too '' , she might say .
cp23.90.1	quote	`` I spoke to the fellow next door , too '' , might say she .
cp23.90.2	post-adj2	`` I spoke too , to the fellow next door '' , she might say .
cp23.97.0	ref	Clearly , two damp days with the Bobbsey Twins had done him no good .
cp23.97.1	dat-np-np	Clearly , two damp days with the Bobbsey Twins had done no good to him .
cp23.98.0	ref	The sun , blazing hot as prophesied , was far from kind to Mrs. Kirby 's varicolored properties .
cp23.98.1	post-adv	As prophesied the sun , blazing hot , was far from kind to Mrs. Kirby 's varicolored properties .
cp23.99.0	ref	When Charlie came up from the beach for his four-o'clock pill , the whole establishment -LRB- gaudy enough when seen through mist and fog -RRB- looked like a floodlit modern painting -- great blocks of dizzy color , punctuated at regular intervals by the glaring white of five community refrigerators .
cp23.99.1	pre-adv	The whole establishment -LRB- gaudy enough when seen through mist and fog -RRB- looked like a floodlit modern painting -- great blocks of dizzy color , punctuated at regular intervals by the glaring white of five community refrigerators , when Charlie came up from the beach for his four-o'clock pill .
cp23.99.2	post-adj2	When Charlie came for his four-o'clock pill up from the beach , the whole establishment -LRB- gaudy enough when seen through mist and fog -RRB- looked like a floodlit modern painting -- great blocks of dizzy color , punctuated at regular intervals by the glaring white of five community refrigerators .
cp23.100.0	ref	This weekend , he thought , he would look around for some more subdued retreat , with Cape roses , maybe , at the door .
cp23.100.1	post-adj2	This weekend , he thought , he would look for some more subdued retreat , with Cape roses , maybe , at the door around .
cp23.105.0	ref	It gave him a good feeling .
cp23.105.1	dat-np-np	It gave a good feeling to him .
cp23.108.0	ref	`` I 've got this cold '' , he wrote .
cp23.108.1	quote	`` I 've got this cold '' , wrote he .
cp23.110.0	ref	`` It 's none of my business '' , said the next note , `` but my Aunt Elsie used to take lemon juice and honey in hot water for a cold , and she lived to be ninety-six .
cp23.110.1	iquote	`` It 's none of my business '' , the next note said , `` but my Aunt Elsie used to take lemon juice and honey in hot water for a cold , and she lived to be ninety-six .
cp23.123.0	ref	`` You wo n't , if you 're looking for a redhead .
cp23.123.1	post-adv	`` You if you 're looking for a redhead wo n't .
cp23.128.0	ref	Up on a dune , he saw a girl , all by herself , sitting on a camp stool before an easel and absorbed in her painting .
cp23.128.1	post-adj2	Up on a dune , he saw a girl , all by herself , sitting before an easel on a camp stool and absorbed in her painting .
cp23.129.0	ref	He paid little attention to her because she was a redhead and because she was wearing white -- one of those bulky , turtle-neck sweaters .
cp23.129.1	post-adv	Because she was a redhead and because she was wearing white -- one of those bulky , turtle-neck sweaters he paid little attention to her .
cp23.131.0	ref	And he saw them all as he walked up and down .
cp23.131.1	post-adv	As he walked up and down and he saw them all .
cp23.133.0	ref	Finally , in desperation , he opened the refrigerator , filched her hand lotion , and left a note .
cp23.133.1	pre-adj2	In desperation , finally , he opened the refrigerator , filched her hand lotion , and left a note .
cp23.134.0	ref	`` I 've got this sunburn '' , said the note , `` and I used some of your hand lotion .
cp23.134.1	iquote	`` I 've got this sunburn '' , the note said , `` and I used some of your hand lotion .
cp23.136.0	ref	`` Of course I do n't mind '' , she answered .
cp23.136.1	quote	`` Of course I do n't mind '' , answered she .
cp23.138.0	ref	Use all the lotion you want , and for goodness ' sake , stay in out of the sun for a couple of days '' .
cp23.138.1	post-adj2	Use all the lotion you want , and for goodness ' sake , stay in for a couple of days out of the sun '' .
cp23.139.0	ref	This was a very warm , sympathetic girl , he decided .
cp23.139.1	quote	This was a very warm , sympathetic girl , decided he .
cp23.143.0	ref	He did n't know what was so tough about Vivian 's world , slopping around Nassau with what's-his-name .
cp23.143.1	post-adj2	He did n't know what was so tough about Vivian 's world , slopping with what's-his-name around Nassau .
cp23.146.0	ref	She might peel him , once the worst of the agony was over .
cp23.146.1	post-adv	She , once the worst of the agony was over , might peel him .
cp23.150.0	ref	The only thing , this lotion has glycerin in it , and that whitens the skin , so if you 're so anxious to get a tan , you may not want to use it '' .
cp23.150.1	pre-adv	The only thing , this lotion has glycerin in it , and that whitens the skin , so you may not want to use it , if you 're so anxious to get a tan '' .
cp23.160.0	ref	Do you have anything to read while you 're shut up ?
cp23.160.1	post-adv	While you 're shut up do you have anything to read ?
cp25.3.0	ref	When he was twelve he took to reading St. Augustine and Aquinas , then Lao-tse , Confucius , Mencius , Suzuki , Hindu tomes by endless Krishnaists and numerous socio-archaeological papers .
cp25.3.1	pre-adv	He took to reading St. Augustine and Aquinas , then Lao-tse , Confucius , Mencius , Suzuki , Hindu tomes by endless Krishnaists and numerous socio-archaeological papers when he was twelve .
cp25.4.0	ref	For his birthday , because Richard had seen them in a store and asked for them , his mother bought him the Zend-Avesta and a little image of the Indian god , Acala .
cp25.4.1	pre-adv	For his birthday his mother bought him the Zend-Avesta and a little image of the Indian god , Acala , because Richard had seen them in a store and asked for them .
cp25.5.0	ref	And one day , on her own , his mother came home with a present entitled The Book of the Dead , which she suspected Richard would enjoy .
cp25.5.1	pre-adj2	And on her own , one day , his mother came home with a present entitled The Book of the Dead , which she suspected Richard would enjoy .
cp25.5.2	post-adj2	And one day , on her own , his mother came with a present entitled The Book of the Dead , which she suspected Richard would enjoy home .
cp25.7.0	ref	At dinner one night , when he was fourteen , Richard announced , `` There is only one god '' .
cp25.7.1	pre-adj2	One night , when he was fourteen at dinner , Richard announced , `` There is only one god '' .
cp25.9.0	ref	`` You do n't understand '' , Richard said gloomily .
cp25.9.1	quote	`` You do n't understand '' , said Richard gloomily .
cp25.10.0	ref	Through quiet laughter his mother said , `` Do n't speak to your father like that , Richard '' .
cp25.10.1	post-adj2	Through quiet laughter his mother said , `` Do n't speak like that to your father , Richard '' .
cp25.12.0	ref	His interest in the formal study of religion waned when he was sixteen and he substituted for it an interest in Asian affairs .
cp25.12.1	post-adv	When he was sixteen his interest in the formal study of religion waned and he substituted for it an interest in Asian affairs .
cp25.13.0	ref	Although he still did n't speak to anyone , he grew fond of saying , `` The future lies in Asia '' , when the opportunity arose , and when he graduated from high school his parents sent him to New York to give him a foundation , they said , for his life in Asian studies .
cp25.13.1	dat-np-np	Although he still did n't speak to anyone , he grew fond of saying , `` The future lies in Asia '' , when the opportunity arose , and when he graduated from high school his parents sent him to New York to give a foundation , they said , for his life in Asian studies to him .
cp25.13.2	post-adv	Although he still did n't speak to anyone , he grew fond of , when the opportunity arose , saying , `` The future lies in Asia '' , and when he graduated from high school his parents sent him to New York to give him a foundation , they said , for his life in Asian studies .
cp25.13.3	pre-adv	He grew fond of saying , `` The future lies in Asia '' , when the opportunity arose , although he still did n't speak to anyone , and when he graduated from high school his parents sent him to New York to give him a foundation , they said , for his life in Asian studies .
cp25.13.4	pre-adv	Although he still did n't speak to anyone , he grew fond of saying , `` The future lies in Asia '' , when the opportunity arose , and his parents sent him to New York to give him a foundation , they said , for his life in Asian studies when he graduated from high school .
cp25.26.0	ref	During his second week at sea he brought the curious melody out of the instrument and suddenly wanted to force the biwa to remain at just that moment in its history when it had given him pleasure .
cp25.26.1	dat-np-np	During his second week at sea he brought the curious melody out of the instrument and suddenly wanted to force the biwa to remain at just that moment in its history when it had given pleasure to him .
cp25.27.0	ref	He stole from his cabin late that night and crept out into a gusty North Pacific wind and dropped the biwa into the water .
cp25.27.1	post-adj2	He stole late that night from his cabin and crept out into a gusty North Pacific wind and dropped the biwa into the water .
cp25.35.0	ref	She convinced him that he ought to be a member of some of the small tea-drinking parties she held at her rooms and in the end he complied with her wishes , although it was only rarely that he added anything to the random conversations .
cp25.35.1	post-adv	She convinced him that he ought to be a member of some of the small tea-drinking parties she held at her rooms and , although it was only rarely that he added anything to the random conversations , in the end he complied with her wishes .
cp25.36.0	ref	At one such gathering Charlotte announced , `` I was at Ryusenji today .
cp25.36.1	post-adj2	At one such gathering Charlotte announced , `` I was today at Ryusenji .
cp25.43.0	ref	Soba , udon and tea were In because they could be taken noisily .
cp25.43.1	post-adv	Because they could be taken noisily soba , udon and tea were In .
cp25.44.0	ref	Sushi was Out because it was pretentious .
cp25.44.1	post-adv	Because it was pretentious sushi was Out .
cp25.45.0	ref	Sashimi was In , Samuel Burns had suggested , because it was too far Out to stay Out , even if it was a little pretentious .
cp25.45.1	post-adv	Because it was too far Out to stay Out , even if it was a little pretentious sashimi was In , Samuel Burns had suggested .
cp25.45.2	post-adv	Sashimi was In , Samuel Burns had suggested , because , even if it was a little pretentious , it was too far Out to stay Out .
cp25.47.0	ref	`` He was n't the least bit disturbed by my watching him '' , said Charlotte .
cp25.47.1	iquote	`` He was n't the least bit disturbed by my watching him '' , Charlotte said .
cp25.50.0	ref	`` Well I was able to do it '' , Charlotte said with no sign of irritation .
cp25.50.1	quote	`` Well I was able to do it '' , said Charlotte with no sign of irritation .
cp25.53.0	ref	I 've been there a number of times .
cp25.53.1	post-adj2	I 've been a number of times there .
cp25.56.0	ref	`` I 've heard about it '' , Samuel Burns said .
cp25.56.1	quote	`` I 've heard about it '' , said Samuel Burns .
cp25.62.0	ref	`` There was that fellow out there in the bitter cold '' -- `` My God , it was cold today '' , said Samuel Burns .
cp25.62.1	iquote	`` There was that fellow out there in the bitter cold '' -- `` My God , it was cold today '' , Samuel Burns said .
cp25.62.2	post-adj2	`` There was that fellow in the bitter cold out there '' -- `` My God , it was cold today '' , said Samuel Burns .
cp25.72.0	ref	He had almost given up when he realized that the dropping of his biwa into the icy jowls of the black Pacific was the memory for which he had been searching .
cp25.72.1	post-adv	He when he realized that the dropping of his biwa into the icy jowls of the black Pacific was the memory for which he had been searching had almost given up .
cp25.74.0	ref	That night , after leaving Charlotte 's apartment , Richard walked about for a time before returning to his room .
cp25.74.1	pre-adj2	After leaving Charlotte 's apartment , that night , Richard walked about for a time before returning to his room .
cp25.74.2	post-adj3	That night , after leaving Charlotte 's apartment , Richard walked for a time about before returning to his room .
cp25.74.3	post-adj3	That night , after leaving Charlotte 's apartment , Richard walked before returning to his room for a time about .
cp25.74.4	post-adj3	That night , after leaving Charlotte 's apartment , Richard walked about before returning to his room for a time .
cp25.74.5	post-adj3	That night , after leaving Charlotte 's apartment , Richard walked before returning to his room about for a time .
cp25.74.6	post-adj3	That night , after leaving Charlotte 's apartment , Richard walked for a time before returning to his room about .
cp25.75.0	ref	When he at last did go to his room , he could n't sleep and instead paced up and down before his little image of Acala , thinking first of Charlotte 's tale of the man at Ryusenji , then of his biwa and the invisible Pacific waters .
cp25.75.1	pre-adv	He could n't sleep and instead paced up and down before his little image of Acala , thinking first of Charlotte 's tale of the man at Ryusenji , then of his biwa and the invisible Pacific waters , when he at last did go to his room .
cp25.77.0	ref	He was surprised by the sharp sensation he experienced as he approached the pool which Charlotte had mentioned .
cp25.77.1	post-adv	He was surprised by the sharp sensation as he approached the pool which Charlotte had mentioned he experienced .
cp25.81.0	ref	The sensation he so overwhelmingly realized was one which told him he had been there before but he knew he had not , and could not recall any place he had visited to be likened to the limpid green water or the little fountain-falls or the green demon imprisoned beyond his reach .
cp25.81.1	post-adj2	The sensation he so overwhelmingly realized was one which told him he had been before there but he knew he had not , and could not recall any place he had visited to be likened to the limpid green water or the little fountain-falls or the green demon imprisoned beyond his reach .
cp25.85.0	ref	The black Fudo seemed to stare rigidly back at him and Richard 's eyes were caught by the Fudo 's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo 's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it .
cp25.85.1	post-adv	The black Fudo seemed to stare rigidly back at him and Richard 's eyes were caught by the Fudo 's in fascination , and then Richard as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo 's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it was shocked .
cp25.85.2	post-adv	The black Fudo seemed to stare rigidly back at him and Richard 's eyes were caught by the Fudo 's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo 's face and , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it , there was a terrible metallic scraping sound .
cp25.85.3	post-adj3	The black Fudo seemed to stare back rigidly at him and Richard 's eyes were caught by the Fudo 's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo 's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it .
cp25.85.4	post-adj3	The black Fudo seemed to stare at him back rigidly and Richard 's eyes were caught by the Fudo 's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo 's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it .
cp25.85.5	post-adj3	The black Fudo seemed to stare rigidly at him back and Richard 's eyes were caught by the Fudo 's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo 's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it .
cp25.85.6	post-adj3	The black Fudo seemed to stare at him rigidly back and Richard 's eyes were caught by the Fudo 's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo 's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it .
cp25.85.7	post-adj3	The black Fudo seemed to stare back at him rigidly and Richard 's eyes were caught by the Fudo 's in fascination , and then Richard was shocked as , all at once , flames shot out from the sharp features of Fudo 's face and there was a terrible metallic scraping sound , as if the large statue were about to burst from some pressure within it .
cp25.88.0	ref	He walked all the miles back to his room .
cp25.88.1	post-adj2	He walked all the miles to his room back .
cp25.89.0	ref	He seemed to have picked up a virus that day , because the next morning he had a small cough and felt a bit hot .
cp25.89.1	post-adv	Because the next morning he had a small cough and felt a bit hot , he seemed to have picked up a virus that day .
cp26.1.0	ref	I was thinking of the heat and of water that morning when I was plowing the stubble field far across the hill from the farm buildings .
cp26.1.1	post-adj2	I was thinking that morning when I was plowing the stubble field far across the hill from the farm buildings of the heat and of water .
cp26.2.0	ref	It had grown hot early that day , and I hoped that the boy , my brother 's son , would soon come across the broad black area of plowed ground , carrying the jar of cool water .
cp26.2.1	post-adj2	It had grown hot that day early , and I hoped that the boy , my brother 's son , would soon come across the broad black area of plowed ground , carrying the jar of cool water .
cp26.3.0	ref	The boy usually was sent out at about that time with the water , and he always dragged an old snow-fence lath or a stick along , to play with .
cp26.3.1	post-adj2	The boy usually was sent out with the water at about that time , and he always dragged an old snow-fence lath or a stick along , to play with .
cp26.5.0	ref	I almost ran over the snake before I could stop the tractor in time .
cp26.5.1	post-adv	Before I could stop the tractor in time I almost ran over the snake .
cp26.6.0	ref	I had turned at the corner of the field and I had to look back to raise the plow and then to drop it again into the earth , and I was thinking of the boy and the water anyway , and when I looked again down the furrow , the snake was there .
cp26.6.1	pre-adv	I had turned at the corner of the field and I had to look back to raise the plow and then to drop it again into the earth , and I was thinking of the boy and the water anyway , and the snake was there , when I looked again down the furrow .
cp26.7.0	ref	It lay half in the furrow and half out , and the front wheels had rolled nearly up to it when I put in the clutch .
cp26.7.1	post-adv	It lay half in the furrow and half out , and the front wheels when I put in the clutch had rolled nearly up to it .
cp26.9.0	ref	The snake slid slowly and with great care from the new ridge the plow had made , into the furrow and did not go any further .
cp26.9.1	post-adj2	The snake slid slowly and with great care into the furrow , from the new ridge the plow had made and did not go any further .
cp26.10.0	ref	I had never liked snakes much , I still had that kind of quick panic that I 'd had as a child whenever I saw one , but this snake was clean and bright and very beautiful .
cp26.10.1	post-adv	I had never liked snakes much , I still had that kind of quick panic that I whenever I saw one 'd had as a child , but this snake was clean and bright and very beautiful .
cp26.19.0	ref	His flat and gracefully tapered head lifted as I looked at him and the black tongue slipped in and out of that solemn mouth .
cp26.19.1	post-adv	As I looked at him his flat and gracefully tapered head lifted and the black tongue slipped in and out of that solemn mouth .
cp26.22.0	ref	I had killed snakes before , when I was younger , but there had been no animal like this one , and I knew it was unthinkable that an animal such as that should die .
cp26.22.1	post-adv	I , when I was younger , had killed snakes before , but there had been no animal like this one , and I knew it was unthinkable that an animal such as that should die .
cp26.23.0	ref	I picked him up , and the length of him arched very carefully and gracefully and only a little wildly , and I could feel the coolness of that radiant , fire-colored body , like splendid ice , and I knew that he had eaten only recently because there were two whole and solid little lumps in the forepart of him , like fieldmice swallowed whole might make .
cp26.23.1	post-adv	I picked him up , and the length of him arched very carefully and gracefully and only a little wildly , and I could feel the coolness of that radiant , fire-colored body , like splendid ice , and I knew that he because there were two whole and solid little lumps in the forepart of him , like fieldmice swallowed whole might make had eaten only recently .
cp26.24.0	ref	The body caressed through my hands like cool satin , and my hands , usually tanned and dark , were pale beside it , and I asked it where the fire colors could come from the coolness of that body .
cp26.24.1	post-adj2	The body caressed like cool satin through my hands , and my hands , usually tanned and dark , were pale beside it , and I asked it where the fire colors could come from the coolness of that body .
cp26.25.0	ref	I lowered him so he would not fall and his body slid out onto the cool , newly-plowed earth , from between my pale hands .
cp26.25.1	post-adv	So he would not fall I lowered him and his body slid out onto the cool , newly-plowed earth , from between my pale hands .
cp26.25.2	post-adj2	I lowered him so he would not fall and his body slid from between my pale hands , out onto the cool , newly-plowed earth .
cp26.27.0	ref	The sharp , burning colors of his body stood brilliant and plain against the black soil , like a target .
cp26.27.1	post-adj2	The sharp , burning colors of his body stood brilliant and plain like a target , against the black soil .
cp26.29.0	ref	It shone in its bright diamond color against the sun-burned stubble and the crumbled black clods of soil and against the paleness of myself .
cp26.29.1	post-adj2	It shone against the sun-burned stubble and the crumbled black clods of soil and against the paleness of myself in its bright diamond color .
cp26.30.0	ref	The color and beauty of it were strange and wonderful and somehow alien , too , in that dry and dusty and uncolored field .
cp26.30.1	post-adj2	The color and beauty of it were strange and wonderful and somehow alien , in that dry and dusty and uncolored field , too .
cp26.31.0	ref	I got on the tractor again and I had to watch the plow closely because the field was drawn across the long hillside and even in that good soil there was a danger of rocks .
cp26.31.1	post-adv	I got on the tractor again and because the field was drawn across the long hillside and even in that good soil there was a danger of rocks I had to watch the plow closely .
cp26.31.2	post-adj2	I got again on the tractor and I had to watch the plow closely because the field was drawn across the long hillside and even in that good soil there was a danger of rocks .
cp26.33.0	ref	The earth was a little heavy and I had to stop once and clean the plowshares because they were not scouring properly , and I did not look back towards the place until I had turned the corner and was plowing across the upper line of the large field , a long way from where I had stopped because of the snake .
cp26.33.1	post-adv	The earth was a little heavy and because they were not scouring properly I had to stop once and clean the plowshares , and I did not look back towards the place until I had turned the corner and was plowing across the upper line of the large field , a long way from where I had stopped because of the snake .
cp26.33.2	post-adv	The earth was a little heavy and I had to stop once and clean the plowshares because they were not scouring properly , and I until I had turned the corner and was plowing across the upper line of the large field , a long way from where I had stopped because of the snake did not look back towards the place .
cp26.35.0	ref	The boy was there at the lower corner of the field , and he was in the plowed earth , stamping with ferocity and a kind of frenzied impatience .
cp26.35.1	post-adj2	The boy was at the lower corner of the field there , and he was in the plowed earth , stamping with ferocity and a kind of frenzied impatience .
cp26.36.0	ref	Even at that distance , with no sound but the sound of the tractor , I could tell the fierce mark of brutality on the boy .
cp26.36.1	pre-adj2	With no sound but the sound of the tractor , even at that distance , I could tell the fierce mark of brutality on the boy .
cp26.41.0	ref	I felt myself tremble , thinking of the diamond light of that beauty I had held a few moments before , and I wanted to run down there and halt , if I could , that frenetic pirouette , catch the boy in the moment of his savagery , and save a glimmer , a remnant , of that which I remembered , but I knew it was already too late .
cp26.41.1	post-adv	I felt myself tremble , thinking of the diamond light of that beauty I had held a few moments before , and I wanted to run down there and , if I could , halt that frenetic pirouette , catch the boy in the moment of his savagery , and save a glimmer , a remnant , of that which I remembered , but I knew it was already too late .
cp26.45.0	ref	The boy waited at the corner , with the jar of water held up to me in his hands , and the water had grown bubbly in the heat of the morning .
cp26.45.1	post-adj2	The boy waited with the jar of water held up to me in his hands , at the corner , and the water had grown bubbly in the heat of the morning .
cp26.48.0	ref	He was a beautiful boy , really , with finely-spun blonde hair and a smooth and still effeminate face , and his eyelashes were long and dark and brushlike , and his eyes were blue .
cp26.48.1	post-adj2	He was a beautiful boy , with finely-spun blonde hair and a smooth and still effeminate face , really , and his eyelashes were long and dark and brushlike , and his eyes were blue .
cp26.49.0	ref	He waited there and he smiled as the tractor came up , as he would smile on any other day .
cp26.49.1	post-adv	He waited there and , as the tractor came up , he smiled as he would smile on any other day .
cp26.49.2	post-adv	He waited there and , as he would smile on any other day , he smiled as the tractor came up .
cp26.51.0	ref	I saw then , too , the stake driven straight and hard into the plowed soil , through something there where I had been not long before .
cp26.51.1	post-adj2	I saw too , then , the stake driven straight and hard into the plowed soil , through something there where I had been not long before .
cp26.52.0	ref	I stopped the tractor and climbed down and the boy came eagerly up to me .
cp26.52.1	post-adj2	I stopped the tractor and climbed down and the boy came up to me eagerly .
cp26.53.0	ref	`` Can I ride around with you '' ? He asked , as he often did , and I had as often let him be on the tractor beside me .
cp26.53.1	post-adv	As he often did , and I had as often let him be on the tractor beside me , `` can I ride around with you '' ? He asked .
cp26.53.2	post-adj2	`` Can I ride with you around '' ? He asked , as he often did , and I had as often let him be on the tractor beside me .
cp26.54.0	ref	I looked closely at his eyes , and he was already innocent ; the killing was already forgotten in that clear mind of his .
cp26.54.1	post-adj2	I looked at his eyes closely , and he was already innocent ; the killing was already forgotten in that clear mind of his .
cp26.55.0	ref	`` No , you can not '' , I said , pushing aside the water jar he offered to me .
cp26.55.1	quote	`` No , you can not '' , said , pushing I aside the water jar he offered to me .
cp26.65.0	ref	`` Snakes are ugly '' , he said again .
cp26.65.1	quote	`` Snakes are ugly '' , said he again .
cp26.71.0	ref	`` They eat chickens sometimes '' , the boy said .
cp26.71.1	quote	`` They eat chickens sometimes '' , said the boy .
cp26.73.0	ref	`` You are talking foolishly '' , I said .
cp26.73.1	quote	`` You are talking foolishly '' , said I .
cp26.74.0	ref	`` You killed it because you wanted to kill it , for no other reason '' .
cp26.74.1	post-adv	Because you wanted to kill it , `` you killed it for no other reason '' .
cp26.75.0	ref	`` They 're ugly and I hate them '' , the boy insisted .
cp26.75.1	quote	`` They 're ugly and I hate them '' , insisted the boy .
cp26.77.0	ref	`` It was beautiful '' , I said , half to myself .
cp26.77.1	quote	`` It was beautiful '' , said I , half to myself .
cp26.78.0	ref	The boy skipped along beside me , and he was contented with what he had done .
cp26.78.1	post-adj2	The boy skipped beside me along , and he was contented with what he had done .
cp26.81.0	ref	The snake was hideous , and I remembered , even then , the cool , bright fire of it only a little while before , and I thought perhaps the boy had always seen it dead and hideous like that , and had not even stopped to see the beauty of it in its life .
cp26.81.1	post-adj2	The snake was hideous , and I remembered , only a little while before , the cool , bright fire of it even then , and I thought perhaps the boy had always seen it dead and hideous like that , and had not even stopped to see the beauty of it in its life .
cp26.82.0	ref	I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven through it in the thickest part of its body , between the colored diamond crystals .
cp26.82.1	post-adj3	I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven in the thickest part of its body through it , between the colored diamond crystals .
cp26.82.2	post-adj3	I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven between the colored diamond crystals in the thickest part of its body , through it .
cp26.82.3	post-adj3	I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven through it between the colored diamond crystals , in the thickest part of its body .
cp26.82.4	post-adj3	I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven , between the colored diamond crystals , through it in the thickest part of its body .
cp26.82.5	post-adj3	I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven in the thickest part of its body , between the colored diamond crystals through it .
cp26.83.0	ref	I touched it and the coolness , the ice-feeling , was gone , and even then it moved a little , perhaps a tiny spasm of the dead muscles , and I hoped that it was truly dead , so that I would not have to kill it .
cp26.83.1	post-adv	I touched it and the coolness , the ice-feeling , was gone , and even then it moved a little , perhaps a tiny spasm of the dead muscles , and I hoped that , so that I would not have to kill it , it was truly dead .
cp26.86.0	ref	I 'm sorry , I thought to the snake , for you were beautiful .
cp26.86.1	quote	I 'm sorry , thought I to the snake , for you were beautiful .
cp26.88.0	ref	The boy came around behind me , dragging the stake .
cp26.88.1	post-adj2	The boy came behind me around , dragging the stake .
cp26.91.0	ref	`` Do n't you see what you have done '' ? I said .
cp26.91.1	dat-np-np	`` Do you to n't see what you have done '' ? I said .
cp26.93.0	ref	`` It 's an ugly , terrible snake '' , he said .
cp26.93.1	quote	`` It 's an ugly , terrible snake '' , said he .
cp26.94.0	ref	He came up and was going to push at it with his heavy shoes .
cp26.94.1	post-adj2	He came up and was going to push with his heavy shoes at it .
cp26.100.0	ref	I wanted to slap his face , to wipe forever the insolence and brutal glee from his mouth , and I decided then , very suddenly , what I would do .
cp26.100.1	post-adj2	I wanted to slap his face , to wipe from his mouth the insolence and brutal glee forever , and I decided then , very suddenly , what I would do .
cp27.5.0	ref	But due to the many applicants on file , would he co-operate and write a personal letter giving them his son 's motivation , interests and his qualifications for leadership ?
cp27.5.1	dat-np-np	But due to the many applicants on file , would he co-operate and write a personal letter giving his son 's motivation , interests and his qualifications for leadership to them ?
cp27.13.0	ref	Gone back for reunions .
cp27.13.1	post-adj2	Gone for reunions back .
cp27.14.0	ref	But he had been busy building a business , being a big man in his own town just as he had been a big man at Hanford , Class of 1935 .
cp27.14.1	post-adv	But he had been busy just as he had been a big man at Hanford , Class of 1935 building a business , being a big man in his own town .
cp27.20.0	ref	Cady looked at his own son 's scholastic record with pride .
cp27.20.1	post-adj2	Cady looked with pride at his own son 's scholastic record .
cp27.23.0	ref	Mr. Partlow could still feel a cold sweat on his slightly gray temples as he remembered what a near thing chemistry had been for him at Hanford .
cp27.23.1	post-adv	Mr. Partlow as he remembered what a near thing chemistry had been for him at Hanford could still feel a cold sweat on his slightly gray temples .
cp27.34.0	ref	He turned back to the typewriter with a little more confidence .
cp27.34.1	post-adj3	He turned to the typewriter back with a little more confidence .
cp27.34.2	post-adj3	He turned with a little more confidence to the typewriter back .
cp27.34.3	post-adj3	He turned back with a little more confidence to the typewriter .
cp27.34.4	post-adj3	He turned with a little more confidence back to the typewriter .
cp27.34.5	post-adj3	He turned to the typewriter with a little more confidence back .
cp27.39.0	ref	That you have refused to drive him into the family business or push him into a profession so you can say at the club , `` Of course David has known since he was twelve he wanted to be an engineer '' -- or a lawyer , or an editor ?
cp27.39.1	post-adv	That you have refused so you can say at the club , `` Of course David has known since he was twelve he wanted to be an engineer '' -- or a lawyer , or an editor to drive him into the family business or push him into a profession ?
cp27.39.2	post-adv	That you have refused to drive him into the family business or push him into a profession so you can say at the club , `` Of course David since he was twelve has known he wanted to be an engineer '' -- or a lawyer , or an editor ?
cp27.41.0	ref	Just give him time , give him a chance .
cp27.41.1	dat-np-np	Just give time to him , give him a chance .
cp27.41.2	dat-np-np	Just give him time , give a chance to him .
cp27.42.0	ref	Cady snapped the Venetian blind shut and slammed himself down before the typewriter , rolled in a fresh sheet , and gave his letter the same savage attention he bestowed on a salesman who needed to have the bucket taken off his thick head .
cp27.42.1	dat-np-np	Cady snapped the Venetian blind shut and slammed himself down before the typewriter , rolled in a fresh sheet , and gave the same savage attention he bestowed on a salesman who needed to have the bucket taken off his thick head to his letter .
cp27.44.0	ref	His eyebrow went up in amusement at his soul-searching panic .
cp27.44.1	post-adj2	His eyebrow went up at his soul-searching panic in amusement .
cp27.53.0	ref	After all , his wife had written most of his letters for him in those first lean days of Partlow Products .
cp27.53.1	post-adj2	After all , his wife had written most of his letters in those first lean days of Partlow Products for him .
cp27.62.0	ref	He whistled as he locked the office and grinned as he got on the elevator .
cp27.62.1	post-adv	He as he locked the office whistled and grinned as he got on the elevator .
cp27.62.2	post-adv	He as he got on the elevator whistled as he locked the office and grinned .
cp27.66.0	ref	When I went to college they begged you to come .
cp27.66.1	pre-adv	They begged you to come when I went to college .
cp27.72.0	ref	My John applied to six colleges before he got in '' .
cp27.72.1	post-adv	Before he got in my John applied to six colleges '' .
cp27.76.0	ref	Always messing around with science stuff .
cp27.76.1	post-adj2	Always messing with science stuff around .
cp27.81.0	ref	As he drove home through the thinning traffic , Cady felt the unease growing .
cp27.81.1	pre-adv	Cady felt the unease growing , as he drove home through the thinning traffic .
cp27.81.2	post-adj2	As he drove through the thinning traffic home , Cady felt the unease growing .
cp27.82.0	ref	He had n't told anyone , but he , too , had applied to five colleges for David .
cp27.82.1	post-adj2	He had n't told anyone , but he , too , had applied for David to five colleges .
cp27.90.0	ref	He suddenly realized when he walked into his own pretty darned expensive house that he needed the Martini Anne had waiting for him .
cp27.90.1	post-adv	When he walked into his own pretty darned expensive house he suddenly realized that he needed the Martini Anne had waiting for him .
cp27.92.0	ref	Nor did looking at Anne ease the tension as it usually did .
cp27.92.1	post-adv	As it usually did nor did looking at Anne ease the tension .
cp27.112.0	ref	Dave ate two pieces of pie as he did everything else , slowly , methodically and with interest .
cp27.112.1	post-adv	As he did everything else , Dave ate two pieces of pie slowly , methodically and with interest .
cp27.113.0	ref	`` Hear anything from Hanford yet , Dad '' ?
cp27.113.1	post-adj2	`` Hear anything yet from Hanford , Dad '' ?
cp27.120.0	ref	Anne said it was n't surprising because Charles was antisocial , a lone wolf , and completely one-sided .
cp27.120.1	post-adv	Anne said because Charles was antisocial , a lone wolf , and completely one-sided it was n't surprising .
cp27.124.0	ref	Get my old man to bed early .
cp27.124.1	post-adj2	Get my old man early to bed .
cp27.126.0	ref	Anne waited until the door had slammed and picked up the coffeepot .
cp27.126.1	post-adv	Anne until the door had slammed waited and picked up the coffeepot .
cp27.135.0	ref	Hanford College has n't decided on Dave 's application yet .
cp27.135.1	post-adj2	Hanford College has n't decided yet on Dave 's application .
cp27.138.0	ref	Cady handed her the letter , drank his coffee and waited with what he suddenly realized was belligerence .
cp27.138.1	dat-np-np	Cady handed the letter to her , drank his coffee and waited with what he suddenly realized was belligerence .
cp27.140.0	ref	`` I know you wrote this in a hurry , but , Cady , Dave was only acting president of the student forum for a few days .
cp27.140.1	post-adj2	`` I know you wrote this in a hurry , but , Cady , Dave was for a few days acting president of the student forum only .
cp27.150.0	ref	`` A team is a team '' , insisted Cady .
cp27.150.1	iquote	`` A team is a team '' , Cady insisted .
cp27.158.0	ref	Geology , You and Dave used his rock collection for the bottom of the fishpond six years ago !
cp27.158.1	post-adj2	Geology , You and Dave used his rock collection six years ago for the bottom of the fishpond !
cp27.171.0	ref	He likes to play bass because he does n't have to solo .
cp27.171.1	post-adv	Because he does n't have to solo he likes to play bass .
cp27.178.0	ref	`` Maybe I am padding it a bit , Anne '' , he said .
cp27.178.1	quote	`` Maybe I am padding it a bit , Anne '' , said he .
cp27.182.0	ref	`` Did you know he is advertising his ham-radio equipment for sale this weekend ?
cp27.182.1	post-adj2	`` Did you know he is advertising his ham-radio equipment this weekend for sale ?
cp27.183.0	ref	He has n't used it now for several years .
cp27.183.1	post-adj2	He has n't used it for several years now .
cp27.185.0	ref	Cady felt the jolt as though he had stepped off the curb on his heel .
cp27.185.1	post-adv	As though he had stepped off the curb on his heel Cady felt the jolt .
cp27.185.2	post-adj2	Cady felt the jolt as though he had stepped on his heel off the curb .
cp27.190.0	ref	For once Cady Partlow wished Anne would yell at him so he could yell back .
cp27.190.1	post-adv	For once Cady Partlow wished Anne so he could yell back would yell at him .
cp27.194.0	ref	`` Just because your father tried to make a banker out of you , you 've leaned over backward to keep your hands off .
cp27.194.1	pre-adv	You 've leaned over backward to keep your hands off `` just because your father tried to make a banker out of you .
cp27.200.0	ref	Give him time '' .
cp27.200.1	dat-np-np	Give time to him '' .
cp28.1.0	ref	Martin felt it was incredible that the situation had come to exist at all . And once begun , had grown to such monstrous proportions .
cp28.1.1	post-adv	Martin felt it was incredible that the situation , once begun , had come to exist at all . And had grown to such monstrous proportions .
cp28.4.0	ref	When he rose in the morning , the image was still there .
cp28.4.1	pre-adv	The image was still there , when he rose in the morning .
cp28.11.0	ref	He remembered the first time he saw her , standing across the room at a party .
cp28.11.1	post-adj2	He remembered the first time he saw her , standing at a party across the room .
cp28.12.0	ref	The smooth curve of her neck , very white against hair which curled against it like petals .
cp28.12.1	post-adj2	The smooth curve of her neck , very white against hair which curled like petals against it .
cp28.13.0	ref	Her hair was the color of those blooms which in seed catalogues are referred to as `` black '' , but since no flower is actually without color contain always a hint of grape or purple or blue -- he wanted to draw the broad patina of hair through his fingers , searching it slowly for a trace of veining which might reveal its true shade beneath the darkness .
cp28.13.1	pre-adv	Her hair was the color of those blooms which in seed catalogues are referred to as `` black '' , but contain always a hint of grape or purple or blue , since no flower is actually without color -- he wanted to draw the broad patina of hair through his fingers , searching it slowly for a trace of veining which might reveal its true shade beneath the darkness .
cp28.13.2	post-adj2	Her hair was the color of those blooms which in seed catalogues are referred as `` black '' to , but since no flower is actually without color contain always a hint of grape or purple or blue -- he wanted to draw the broad patina of hair through his fingers , searching it slowly for a trace of veining which might reveal its true shade beneath the darkness .
cp28.15.0	ref	Or against her back , pressed on the column of vertebrae , which held her so magnificently straight and unyielding , until the segments of bone made tiny sharp cracking noises , like the snapped stem of a tulip .
cp28.15.1	post-adv	Until the segments of bone made tiny sharp cracking noises , like the snapped stem of a tulip , or against her back , pressed on the column of vertebrae , which held her so magnificently straight and unyielding .
cp28.22.0	ref	There was too little occasion beforehand for resistance , the brave strong delights of emotional clash and meeting .
cp28.22.1	post-adj2	There was too little occasion for resistance , the brave strong delights of emotional clash and meeting beforehand .
cp28.23.0	ref	They had left themselves too much to discover .
cp28.23.1	dat-np-np	They had left too much to discover to themselves .
cp28.28.0	ref	Martin gave her a teasing pat .
cp28.28.1	dat-np-np	Martin gave a teasing pat to her .
cp28.31.0	ref	He smiled to himself , and decided not to mention them till Dolores did .
cp28.31.1	post-adv	He smiled to himself , and decided not till Dolores did to mention them .
cp28.34.0	ref	The shorts would not be on the floor when he came home that evening .
cp28.34.1	post-adv	The shorts when he came home that evening would not be on the floor .
cp28.37.0	ref	They gave the room a strange note of incongruity , like a mole on a beautiful face .
cp28.37.1	dat-np-np	They gave a strange note of incongruity , like a mole on a beautiful face to the room .
cp28.40.0	ref	I can be as stubborn as she can , he thought ; my nerves are as strong .
cp28.40.1	quote	I can be as stubborn as she can , thought he ; my nerves are as strong .
cp28.41.0	ref	She 'll rush to the bedroom when the doorbell rings .
cp28.41.1	post-adv	She when the doorbell rings 'll rush to the bedroom .
cp28.54.0	ref	Then he caught just enough to know that the shorts were still there .
cp28.54.1	post-adj2	Then he caught just enough to know that the shorts were there still .
cp28.58.0	ref	For some reason , this ellipsis in the conversation spread until it swallowed up every other topic .
cp28.58.1	post-adv	Until it swallowed up every other topic for some reason , this ellipsis in the conversation spread .
cp28.60.0	ref	The Brainards went home early .
cp28.60.1	post-adj2	The Brainards went early home .
cp28.64.0	ref	On the contrary , it would only weaken his position if he fumed , while she stayed calm and adamant .
cp28.64.1	post-adv	On the contrary , it if he fumed , while she stayed calm and adamant would only weaken his position .
cp28.64.2	post-adv	On the contrary , it would only weaken his position if , while she stayed calm and adamant , he fumed .
cp28.74.0	ref	She was talking about him that time , because he had done some bad thing , something she disliked , but `` Afterwards Martin said he was sorry .
cp28.74.1	post-adv	She , because he had done some bad thing , something she disliked , but `` Afterwards Martin said he was sorry , was talking about him that time .
cp28.74.2	post-adj2	She was talking that time about him , because he had done some bad thing , something she disliked , but `` Afterwards Martin said he was sorry .
cp28.77.0	ref	But his mother told the story over and over , till her `` Martin said he was sorry '' was as much a part of her as the shape of her thin , pallid ears .
cp28.77.1	post-adv	Till her `` Martin said he was sorry '' was as much a part of her as the shape of her thin , pallid ears , but his mother told the story over and over .
cp28.81.0	ref	If the situation had been bad , it now got worse .
cp28.81.1	pre-adv	It now got worse , if the situation had been bad .
cp28.83.0	ref	Angrily Martin wished they had delayed the wedding and gone on a trip -- preferably one that lasted months -- instead of deciding not to postpone the date until he could get away .
cp28.83.1	post-adv	Angrily Martin wished they had delayed the wedding and gone on a trip -- preferably one that lasted months -- instead of deciding not until he could get away to postpone the date .
cp28.92.0	ref	`` It 's a little contest Martin and I have '' , she would begin gaily , carrying the anecdote through a frothy and deceptive course .
cp28.92.1	quote	`` It 's a little contest Martin and I have '' , would begin she gaily , carrying the anecdote through a frothy and deceptive course .
cp28.106.0	ref	He fell into the habit of putting his clothes in drawers and closets , so his life might impinge as little as possible on hers .
cp28.106.1	post-adv	So his life might impinge as little as possible on hers , he fell into the habit of putting his clothes in drawers and closets .
cp28.121.0	ref	When the solution finally came to him , one night while he was in bed , he was so shaken by its simplicity that he could only wonder why it had not occurred to him before .
cp28.121.1	post-adv	When while he was in bed the solution finally came to him , one night , he was so shaken by its simplicity that he could only wonder why it had not occurred to him before .
cp28.121.2	pre-adv	He was so shaken by its simplicity that he could only wonder why it had not occurred to him before , when the solution finally came to him , one night while he was in bed .
cp28.121.3	post-adj2	When the solution finally came one night , to him while he was in bed , he was so shaken by its simplicity that he could only wonder why it had not occurred to him before .
cp28.124.0	ref	Instantaneously he would have won an immeasurable moral victory , for if she picked up , say , a pair of her panties , she might just as well lift his shorts lying alongside -- the expenditure of energy was almost the same .
cp28.124.1	pre-adv	Instantaneously he would have won an immeasurable moral victory , for she might just as well lift his shorts lying alongside , if she picked up , say , a pair of her panties -- the expenditure of energy was almost the same .
cp28.128.0	ref	On the other hand , if she did n't remove her own things , it would be difficult to explain to the parade of guests which traversed the apartment .
cp28.128.1	pre-adv	On the other hand it would be difficult to explain to the parade of guests which traversed the apartment , if she did n't remove her own things .
cp28.131.0	ref	She had used his rumpled shorts as the very image of his childishness , his lack of control , his general male looseness , while she remained cool , airy , and untouched , the charming teacher who disciplined an unruly body .
cp28.131.1	post-adv	She while she remained cool , airy , and untouched , the charming teacher who disciplined an unruly body had used his rumpled shorts as the very image of his childishness , his lack of control , his general male looseness .
cp28.132.0	ref	To have her underclothes linked with his on the floor would draw her visibly into a struggle both bitter and absurd .
cp28.132.1	post-adj2	To have her underclothes linked on the floor with his would draw her visibly into a struggle both bitter and absurd .
cp28.133.0	ref	Something in the back of his mind was aware that the magnificence of the plan lay in his faith , that the idea would work because he believed in it , since his courage and virility were involved , because it was truly his .
cp28.133.1	post-adv	Something in the back of his mind was aware that the magnificence of the plan lay in his faith , that the idea because he believed in it , since his courage and virility were involved , because it was truly his would work .
cp28.133.2	post-adv	Something in the back of his mind was aware that the magnificence of the plan lay in his faith , that the idea would work because , since his courage and virility were involved , he believed in it , because it was truly his .
cp28.135.0	ref	The next morning , while Dolores was out of the room , he went to her bureau drawer , took out a pair of nylon lace pants , and tenderly dropped them next to his shorts .
cp28.135.1	pre-adv	The next morning he went to her bureau drawer , took out a pair of nylon lace pants , and tenderly dropped them next to his shorts , while Dolores was out of the room .
cp28.138.0	ref	To his delight , her eyes focused at once upon the two garments .
cp28.138.1	post-adj2	To his delight , her eyes focused upon the two garments at once .
cp28.142.0	ref	Extending her fingers another inch , she caught up the shorts , and swiftly left the room .
cp28.142.1	dat-np-np	Extending another inch to her fingers , she caught up the shorts , and swiftly left the room .
cp28.144.0	ref	They breakfasted together , but Martin did not refer to his triumph , and Dolores found a great deal to do in the kitchen , bobbing up and down from the table so that talk was impossible .
cp28.144.1	post-adv	They breakfasted together , but Martin did not refer to his triumph , and Dolores found a great deal to do in the kitchen , so that talk was impossible bobbing up and down from the table .
cp28.146.0	ref	He left for work in high spirits .
cp28.146.1	post-adj2	He left in high spirits for work .
cp28.147.0	ref	As he relaxed that day , Martin realized how tense he had been these past weeks .
cp28.147.1	pre-adv	Martin realized how tense he had been these past weeks , as he relaxed that day .
cp29.5.0	ref	Once it was , William thought .
cp29.5.1	quote	Once it was , thought William .
cp29.10.0	ref	General Hershey 's draft and Doc Eddyman and Cap were responsible for his first eminence , but Fearless Freddy Bryan could take credit , if he cared to -LRB- and he did -RRB- , for the second time .
cp29.10.1	post-adv	General Hershey 's draft and Doc Eddyman and Cap were responsible for his first eminence , but Fearless Freddy Bryan , if he cared to -LRB- and he did -RRB- , could take credit for the second time .
cp29.11.0	ref	Freddy needed a job , having been detached from a rather dangerous career in real estate and skyscraper financing by Gerry , and it was up to Arthur Willis to provide him with one .
cp29.11.1	post-adj2	Freddy needed a job , having been detached by Gerry from a rather dangerous career in real estate and skyscraper financing , and it was up to Arthur Willis to provide him with one .
cp29.15.0	ref	Probably Mr. Willis was influenced toward deeper involvement by familial loyalty and a concern for his grandchildren .
cp29.15.1	post-adj2	Probably Mr. Willis was influenced by familial loyalty and a concern for his grandchildren toward deeper involvement .
cp29.20.0	ref	Since they were hunting for national defense contracts , Adam Herberet , a man of surprising resources , entered the combination as a silent partner because of his political connections .
cp29.20.1	pre-adv	Adam Herberet , a man of surprising resources , entered the combination as a silent partner because of his political connections , since they were hunting for national defense contracts .
cp29.28.0	ref	Freed of routine by having his own firm and a complaisant partner , his work in New York had given him a broader overall knowledge of business administration and corporate structure ; and if he was n't entirely committed to what he did , he was at least fascinated by the chance of wider opportunities .
cp29.28.1	dat-np-np	Freed of routine by having his own firm and a complaisant partner , his work in New York had given a broader overall knowledge of business administration and corporate structure to him ; and if he was n't entirely committed to what he did , he was at least fascinated by the chance of wider opportunities .
cp29.28.2	pre-adv	Freed of routine by having his own firm and a complaisant partner , his work in New York had given him a broader overall knowledge of business administration and corporate structure ; and he was at least fascinated by the chance of wider opportunities , if he was n't entirely committed to what he did .
cp29.28.3	post-adj2	Freed by having his own firm and a complaisant partner of routine , his work in New York had given him a broader overall knowledge of business administration and corporate structure ; and if he was n't entirely committed to what he did , he was at least fascinated by the chance of wider opportunities .
cp29.31.0	ref	I know a guy named Jack Hamrick , a very bright young engineer who was with Chrysler , and I took him with me to Allstates .
cp29.31.1	post-adj2	I know a guy named Jack Hamrick , a very bright young engineer who was with Chrysler , and I took him to Allstates with me .
cp29.34.0	ref	Besides that , I 'm acquainted more or less with the defense hardware situation through my contacts in the Air Force .
cp29.34.1	post-adj2	Besides that , I 'm acquainted with the defense hardware situation through my contacts in the Air Force more or less .
cp29.40.0	ref	Ca n't you stay with what you have and wait till the dust settles '' ?
cp29.40.1	post-adv	Ca n't you till the dust settles stay with what you have and wait '' ?
cp29.48.0	ref	I wish you would n't tell Freddy I 'm lukewarm ; I 've caused him trouble before , and he 's beginning to resent me .
cp29.48.1	dat-np-np	I wish you would n't tell Freddy I 'm lukewarm ; I 've caused trouble to him before , and he 's beginning to resent me .
cp29.49.0	ref	If we do n't take care , the sisters will be entering the fray on opposite sides , brandishing their cudgels '' .
cp29.49.1	pre-adv	The sisters will be entering the fray on opposite sides , brandishing their cudgels , if we do n't take care '' .
cp29.58.0	ref	He forgot about A-Z till , unhappily , he and Hamrick were proved correct .
cp29.58.1	post-adv	Till , unhappily , he and Hamrick were proved correct he forgot about A-Z .
cp29.70.0	ref	His recent experience in motor car advertising , a love for cars of themselves , the existence of A-Z 's useless Wisconsin set-up , exposure to exciting conceptions of Hamrick 's that nobody would buy , and the coincidental recent failure of a respected but out-dated small-car manufacturer called Ticonderoga Motors had given him an idea of such dimensions he was almost afraid to broach it .
cp29.70.1	dat-np-np	His recent experience in motor car advertising , a love for cars of themselves , the existence of A-Z 's useless Wisconsin set-up , exposure to exciting conceptions of Hamrick 's that nobody would buy , and the coincidental recent failure of a respected but out-dated small-car manufacturer called Ticonderoga Motors had given an idea of such dimensions he was almost afraid to broach it to him .
cp29.83.0	ref	I ca n't guarantee you a sympathetic audience '' .
cp29.83.1	dat-np-np	I ca n't guarantee a sympathetic audience to you '' .
cp29.86.0	ref	If they follow anyone , it 'll have to be you '' .
cp29.86.1	pre-adv	It 'll have to be you , if they follow anyone '' .
cp29.88.0	ref	`` I should explain : there 's more here for me than advocating my little dream , there 's you .
cp29.88.1	post-adj3	`` I should explain : there 's more for me here than advocating my little dream , there 's you .
cp29.88.2	post-adj3	`` I should explain : there 's more than advocating my little dream for me here , there 's you .
cp29.88.3	post-adj3	`` I should explain : there 's more here than advocating my little dream for me , there 's you .
cp29.88.4	post-adj3	`` I should explain : there 's more , than advocating my little dream , here for me , there 's you .
cp29.88.5	post-adj3	`` I should explain : there 's more for me than advocating my little dream here , there 's you .
cp29.93.0	ref	`` I rather like the music '' , Willis replied quietly .
cp29.93.1	quote	`` I rather like the music '' , replied Willis quietly .
cp29.95.0	ref	At the meeting , attended by Freddy , Richert , Herberet and the A-Z executive staff , with Mr. Willis presiding , William and Hamrick did indeed run the gantlet .
cp29.95.1	post-adj2	At the meeting , attended with Mr. Willis presiding , by Freddy , Richert , Herberet and the A-Z executive staff , William and Hamrick did indeed run the gantlet .
cp29.99.0	ref	`` It 's absurd , Bill '' , Freddy said , from a pale face .
cp29.99.1	quote	`` It 's absurd , Bill '' , said Freddy , from a pale face .
cp29.102.0	ref	`` I do n't enjoy family quarrels '' , Adam said .
cp29.102.1	quote	`` I do n't enjoy family quarrels '' , said Adam .
cp29.107.0	ref	`` I 'm an advertising hustler , I admit , but I have to get hot once in a larger sphere .
cp29.107.1	post-adj2	`` I 'm an advertising hustler , I admit , but I have to get hot in a larger sphere once .
cp29.115.0	ref	Let 's make it moonlight and the call of far places and a seduction , at reasonable rates .
cp29.115.1	dat-np-np	Let 's make moonlight and the call of far places and a seduction , at reasonable rates to it .
cp29.116.0	ref	Ticonderoga folded a few minutes too soon , before the tide changed , still honest and stupid -- and the network of dealers the company had is around waiting to be signed up again -- waiting for us , ready-made .
cp29.116.1	post-adv	Before the tide changed , Ticonderoga folded a few minutes too soon still honest and stupid -- and the network of dealers the company had is around waiting to be signed up again -- waiting for us , ready-made .
cp29.122.0	ref	`` Nobody will underwrite it , I 'm telling you '' , Freddy said .
cp29.122.1	quote	`` Nobody will underwrite it , I 'm telling you '' , said Freddy .
cp29.127.0	ref	If we ca n't raise the capital , we 're through .
cp29.127.1	pre-adv	We 're through , if we ca n't raise the capital .
cp29.130.0	ref	Why wo n't you give me a chance '' ?
cp29.130.1	dat-np-np	Why wo n't you give a chance to me '' ?
cp29.134.0	ref	`` I feel I must answer the question '' , he said , `` since the onus later , if any , should fall on me -- I do n't relish recriminations spread broadcast outside my family .
cp29.134.1	pre-adv	`` I feel I must answer the question '' , he said , `` since the onus later should fall on me , if any -- I do n't relish recriminations spread broadcast outside my family .
cp29.135.0	ref	I 'm not giving you a chance , Bill , but availing myself of your generous offer of assistance .
cp29.135.1	dat-np-np	I 'm not giving a chance to you , Bill , but availing myself of your generous offer of assistance .
cp29.137.0	ref	`` All the in-laws have got to have their day '' , Adam said , and glared at William and Freddy in turn .
cp29.137.1	post-adj2	`` All the in-laws have got to have their day '' , Adam said , and glared in turn at William and Freddy .
cp29.139.0	ref	Across the table , Hamrick saluted him jubilantly with an encircled thumb and forefinger .
cp29.139.1	post-adj2	Across the table , Hamrick saluted him with an encircled thumb and forefinger jubilantly .
cr01.2.0	ref	For it seems that Barco , fancying himself a ladies ' man -LRB- and why not , after seven marriages ? -RRB- , had listed himself for Mormon Beard roles at the instigation of his fourth murder victim who had said : `` With your beard , dear , you ought to be in movies '' !
cr01.2.1	post-adj2	For it seems that Barco , fancying himself a ladies ' man -LRB- and why not , after seven marriages ? -RRB- , had listed himself at the instigation of his fourth murder victim who had said : `` With your beard , dear , you ought to be in movies '' for Mormon Beard roles !
cr01.5.0	ref	Finally , at Ye Olde Gasse Filling Station on Avocado Avenue , they learned that their man , having paused to get oil for his car , had asked about the route to San Diego .
cr01.5.1	pre-adj2	At Ye Olde Gasse Filling Station on Avocado Avenue , finally , they learned that their man , having paused to get oil for his car , had asked about the route to San Diego .
cr01.8.0	ref	The robe , however , was missing , for by that time Barco had disposed of it at a pawnshop in Glendale .
cr01.8.1	post-adv	For by that time Barco had disposed of it at a pawnshop in Glendale , the robe , however , was missing .
cr01.8.2	post-adj2	The robe , however , was missing , for by that time Barco had disposed at a pawnshop in Glendale of it .
cr01.11.0	ref	During the return trip , Barco kept muttering to himself in meaningless phrases , such as : `` They 're under sand dunes They 're better off , I tell you I saved their souls '' .
cr01.11.1	post-adj2	During the return trip , Barco kept muttering in meaningless phrases , such as : `` They 're under sand dunes They 're better off , I tell you I saved their souls '' to himself .
cr01.13.0	ref	However while in his cell awaiting trial for theft , Barco , in a fit of apprehension , made an attempt to take his own life .
cr01.13.1	pre-adv	However Barco , in a fit of apprehension , made an attempt to take his own life , while in his cell awaiting trial for theft .
cr01.14.0	ref	The attempt had failed because , when endeavoring to cut his wrists , this murderer of seven women had fainted at the sight of blood .
cr01.14.1	post-adv	The attempt because , when endeavoring to cut his wrists , this murderer of seven women had fainted at the sight of blood had failed .
cr01.14.2	pre-adv	The attempt had failed because , this murderer of seven women had fainted at the sight of blood , when endeavoring to cut his wrists .
cr01.15.0	ref	The jail authorities -- attaching no particular significance to the episode -- offered Barco whisky to revive him ; but the old fellow , a lifelong teetotaler , refused it , and no more was thought of the matter .
cr01.15.1	dat-np-np	The jail authorities -- attaching no particular significance to the episode -- offered whisky to Barco to revive him ; but the old fellow , a lifelong teetotaler , refused it , and no more was thought of the matter .
cr01.22.0	ref	The suicide attempt looked to him like an opportunity to put his theory to the test .
cr01.22.1	post-adj2	The suicide attempt looked like an opportunity to put his theory to the test to him .
cr01.23.0	ref	So he paid a call on Barco in his cell and began their chat by stating bluntly : `` Barco , we 've got the goods on you !
cr01.23.1	post-adj2	So he paid a call in his cell on Barco and began their chat by stating bluntly : `` Barco , we 've got the goods on you !
cr01.24.0	ref	It 'll be a lot better if you come clean '' .
cr01.24.1	post-adv	It if you come clean 'll be a lot better '' .
cr01.28.0	ref	But if true , it was the case of which he had dreamed , the case which would throw him into headlines all over America as the hero of a great murder trial .
cr01.28.1	pre-adv	But it was the case of which he had dreamed , the case which would throw him into headlines all over America as the hero of a great murder trial , if true .
cr01.28.2	post-adj2	But if true , it was the case of which he had dreamed , the case which would throw him as the hero of a great murder trial into headlines all over America .
cr01.35.0	ref	Then , for the first time since his arrest , a glint of spirit lit Barco 's eyes .
cr01.35.1	pre-adj2	For the first time since his arrest , then , a glint of spirit lit Barco 's eyes .
cr01.56.0	ref	The captain was remarking that it was a nice day for a picnic when finally one of the shovels struck an object .
cr01.56.1	post-adv	The captain when finally one of the shovels struck an object was remarking that it was a nice day for a picnic .
cr01.57.0	ref	`` There 's something here '' ! Said the digger .
cr01.57.1	iquote	`` There 's something here '' ! the digger said .
cr01.59.0	ref	The digger , thrusting about with his shovel , now raised into view a package crudely wrapped in one of the murderer 's Hollywood sport shirts .
cr01.59.1	post-adj2	The digger , thrusting with his shovel about , now raised into view a package crudely wrapped in one of the murderer 's Hollywood sport shirts .
cr01.60.0	ref	Although it was a mere fragment of the victim 's remains , it was enough .
cr01.60.1	pre-adv	It was enough , although it was a mere fragment of the victim 's remains .
cr01.62.0	ref	His elation grew as Barco 's seven disclosures brought to light one reward after another .
cr01.62.1	post-adv	As Barco 's seven disclosures brought to light one reward after another his elation grew .
cr01.67.0	ref	I knew that both these cynics were waiting with impatience for the dramatic moment when Viola was called to the stand .
cr01.67.1	post-adj2	I knew that both these cynics were waiting for the dramatic moment when Viola was called to the stand with impatience .
cr01.68.0	ref	Once there , the D.A. with devilish cleverness would provide Marshall with headlines : `` Viola 's Multiple Romances '' `` Viola Lake an Addict '' `` Downfall of Another Film Idol '' !
cr01.68.1	pre-adv	The D.A. with devilish cleverness would provide Marshall with headlines : `` Viola 's Multiple Romances '' `` Viola Lake an Addict '' `` Downfall of Another Film Idol '' , once there !
cr01.69.0	ref	It would be fine publicity for the man who was willing to walk to the mayor 's throne over the broken reputation of a helpless girl !
cr01.69.1	post-adj2	It would be fine publicity for the man who was willing to walk over the broken reputation of a helpless girl to the mayor 's throne !
cr01.70.0	ref	I studied Welch closely as the trial progressed for any hint which might give me a lead as to how he might be thwarted .
cr01.70.1	dat-np-np	I studied Welch closely as the trial progressed for any hint which might give a lead as to how he might be thwarted to me .
cr01.70.2	post-adv	As the trial progressed I studied Welch closely for any hint which might give me a lead as to how he might be thwarted .
cr01.70.3	post-adj2	I studied Welch for any hint which might give me a lead as to how he might be thwarted as the trial progressed closely .
cr01.71.0	ref	It was n't long before I sensed that there was something deeper than overvaulting ambition back of his desire for Viola 's destruction .
cr01.71.1	post-adv	Before I sensed that there was something deeper than overvaulting ambition back of his desire for Viola 's destruction it was n't long .
cr01.74.0	ref	I did not rest until I had tracked the mystery down .
cr01.74.1	post-adv	I until I had tracked the mystery down did not rest .
cr01.78.0	ref	She arrived late and as she entered the party , noted that gentlemen seemed to be in the majority ; the air was thick with smoke , empty bottles were in evidence , and several of the guests were somewhat the worse for liquor .
cr01.78.1	post-adv	She , as she entered the party , arrived late and noted that gentlemen seemed to be in the majority ; the air was thick with smoke , empty bottles were in evidence , and several of the guests were somewhat the worse for liquor .
cr01.80.0	ref	And it so happened that adjacent to a couch on which she had taken refuge was a small table on which she noted a vase of red rosebuds ; while projecting from beneath the couch were a pair of feet which , as Fate would have it , belonged to District Attorney Welch .
cr01.80.1	pre-adv	And it so happened that adjacent to a couch on which she had taken refuge was a small table on which she noted a vase of red rosebuds ; while projecting from beneath the couch were a pair of feet which , belonged to District Attorney Welch , as Fate would have it .
cr01.81.0	ref	As Viola sat there , a playful impulse overcame her to remove the shoes and socks from the unidentified feet and , as a prank , insert rosebuds between the toes .
cr01.81.1	pre-adv	A playful impulse overcame her to remove the shoes and socks from the unidentified feet and , as a prank , insert rosebuds between the toes , as Viola sat there .
cr01.87.0	ref	He never rested until he discovered who the culprit was , and when he did , he vowed vengeance on Viola Lake if ever the chance came his way .
cr01.87.1	post-adv	Until he discovered who the culprit was he never rested , and when he did , he vowed vengeance on Viola Lake if ever the chance came his way .
cr01.87.2	post-adv	He never rested until he discovered who the culprit was , and if ever the chance came his way when he did , he vowed vengeance on Viola Lake .
cr01.87.3	pre-adv	He never rested until he discovered who the culprit was , and he vowed vengeance on Viola Lake if ever the chance came his way , when he did .
cr01.92.0	ref	We could n't be seen together , for the tongue of Scandal was ever ready to link our names , and the tongue of Scandal finds but one thing to say of the association of a man with a girl , no matter how innocent .
cr01.92.1	post-adv	We could n't , for the tongue of Scandal was ever ready to link our names , and the tongue of Scandal finds but one thing to say of the association of a man with a girl , no matter how innocent , be seen together .
cr01.93.0	ref	I could n't invite Viola to our house , for Mother snobbishly refused to receive her .
cr01.93.1	post-adv	I , for Mother snobbishly refused to receive her , could n't invite Viola to our house .
cr01.97.0	ref	But Mother insisted , for it is seldom indeed that anyone remotely connected with the cinema is ever received in their exclusive midsts .
cr01.97.1	post-adv	For it is seldom indeed that anyone remotely connected with the cinema is ever received in their exclusive midsts , but Mother insisted .
cr01.97.2	post-adj2	But Mother insisted , for it is indeed seldom that anyone remotely connected with the cinema is ever received in their exclusive midsts .
cr01.100.0	ref	But at long last came a time when I broke away from Mother and her society `` chi-chi '' in order to spend a cosy evening with Viola and her chaperon at her home .
cr01.100.1	post-adv	But at long last came a time when in order to spend a cosy evening with Viola and her chaperon at her home I broke away from Mother and her society `` chi-chi '' .
cr01.100.2	post-adj2	But at long last came a time when I broke from Mother and her society `` chi-chi '' away in order to spend a cosy evening with Viola and her chaperon at her home .
cr01.102.0	ref	When I arrived at Viola 's I was shown , to my surprise , into the kitchen .
cr01.102.1	pre-adv	I was shown , to my surprise , into the kitchen when I arrived at Viola 's .
cr02.3.0	ref	I was saved from making the decision as the phone rang , and the girls were upon me instantly .
cr02.3.1	post-adv	I as the phone rang , and the girls were upon me instantly was saved from making the decision .
cr02.4.0	ref	Here 's a household hint : if you ca n't find your children , and get tired of calling them , pick up the phone .
cr02.4.1	pre-adv	Here 's a household hint : pick up the phone , if you ca n't find your children , and get tired of calling them .
cr02.5.0	ref	No matter if your children are at the movies , in school , visiting their grandmother , or on a field trip in some distant city , they will be upon you magically within seconds after you pick up the phone .
cr02.5.1	post-adv	No matter if your children are at the movies , in school , visiting their grandmother , or on a field trip in some distant city , they after you pick up the phone will be upon you magically within seconds .
cr02.5.2	post-adj2	No matter if your children are at the movies , in school , visiting their grandmother , or on a field trip in some distant city , they will be upon you within seconds magically after you pick up the phone .
cr02.9.0	ref	I promised to illustrate the lecture , if they so much as breathed till after the call was completed .
cr02.9.1	post-adv	I promised , if they so much as breathed till after the call was completed , to illustrate the lecture .
cr02.10.0	ref	Speaking into the phone again and recognizing the caller , I resumed my everyday voice .
cr02.10.1	post-adj2	Speaking again into the phone and recognizing the caller , I resumed my everyday voice .
cr02.11.0	ref	Soon we were deep in a conversation that was interrupted many times by little things like Jennie 's holding her breath and pretending to black out , Miranda 's dumping the contents of the sugar bowl on the table , and various screeches , thuds , and giggles .
cr02.11.1	post-adj2	Soon we were deep in a conversation that was interrupted by little things like Jennie 's holding her breath and pretending to black out , Miranda 's dumping the contents of the sugar bowl on the table , and various screeches , thuds , and giggles many times .
cr02.12.0	ref	Under the circumstances , I had difficulty keeping up with the conversation on the phone , but when I hung up I was reasonably certain that Francesca had wanted to remind me of our town meeting the next evening , and how important it was that Hank and I be there .
cr02.12.1	pre-adv	Under the circumstances , I had difficulty keeping up with the conversation on the phone , but I was reasonably certain that Francesca had wanted to remind me of our town meeting the next evening , and how important it was that Hank and I be there when I hung up .
cr02.14.0	ref	It seemed that I would be the gainer if I accepted the peace and quiet , instead of carrying out my threats .
cr02.14.1	post-adv	It seemed that I if I accepted the peace and quiet , instead of carrying out my threats would be the gainer .
cr02.22.0	ref	We did n't even know them till about a month after we moved -- at that time , they had called on us , after I met Fran at a PTA meeting , and had taken us in hand socially .
cr02.22.1	post-adv	We did n't even know them till about a month after we moved -- at that time , they , after I met Fran at a PTA meeting , had called on us , and had taken us in hand socially .
cr02.26.0	ref	Fran and he had met about two years after she had arrived in Manhattan from Nebraska , or was it Wyoming ?
cr02.26.1	post-adv	Fran and he about two years after she had arrived in Manhattan from Nebraska , or was it Wyoming had met ?
cr02.26.2	post-adj2	Fran and he had met about two years after she had arrived from Nebraska , or was it Wyoming in Manhattan ?
cr02.27.0	ref	She was the daughter and sole heiress of either a cattle baron or an oil millionaire and , having arrived in New York with a big bank roll , became a dabbler in various fields .
cr02.27.1	post-adj2	She was the daughter and sole heiress of either a cattle baron or an oil millionaire and , having arrived with a big bank roll in New York , became a dabbler in various fields .
cr02.35.0	ref	`` You are bound to get involved with people when you have children '' , Fran had told me at our first meeting , `` so it is good to know that those with whom you get involved are not just dreary little housewives and dull husbands , but People Who Do Things '' .
cr02.35.1	post-adv	`` You are bound when you have children to get involved with people '' , Fran had told me at our first meeting , `` so it is good to know that those with whom you get involved are not just dreary little housewives and dull husbands , but People Who Do Things '' .
cr02.39.0	ref	It was all set up so there would be no dust anywhere and so that their children would color in the coloring room , paint in the painting room , play with blocks in the block house , and do all the other things in the proper rooms at exactly the right time .
cr02.39.1	post-adv	It so there would be no dust anywhere and so that their children would color in the coloring room , paint in the painting room , play with blocks in the block house , and do all the other things in the proper rooms at exactly the right time was all set up .
cr02.43.0	ref	Sometimes she even wore the uniform in solid , unrelieved black , and with her blonde hair cut so closely , wearing this uniform , she strongly resembled a member of the SS. .
cr02.43.1	pre-adv	Sometimes she even wore the uniform in solid , unrelieved black , and wearing this uniform , she strongly resembled a member of the SS. , with her blonde hair cut so closely .
cr02.44.0	ref	No one could dislike them , I thought .
cr02.44.1	quote	No one could dislike them , thought I .
cr02.45.0	ref	Sometimes , though , they did not seem quite human .
cr02.45.1	pre-adj2	Though , sometimes , they did not seem quite human .
cr02.48.0	ref	You should hear the reverence in Fran 's voice when she said `` Baccarat '' or `` Steuben '' or `` Madame Alexander '' .
cr02.48.1	post-adv	You when she said `` Baccarat '' or `` Steuben '' or `` Madame Alexander '' should hear the reverence in Fran 's voice .
cr02.50.0	ref	I would n't have wasted time puzzling over this couple were it not for my fear that all the other inhabitants of Catatonia were equally unreal .
cr02.50.1	post-adv	I would n't were it not for my fear that all the other inhabitants of Catatonia were equally unreal have wasted time puzzling over this couple .
cr02.51.0	ref	I could n't feel at home among them .
cr02.51.1	post-adj2	I could n't feel among them at home .
cr02.55.0	ref	I had once been a witness when Blanche had smiled and said with only minimum ruefulness , `` Oh , my souffle has collapsed '' .
cr02.55.1	post-adv	I when Blanche had smiled and said with only minimum ruefulness , `` Oh , my souffle has collapsed '' had once been a witness .
cr02.57.0	ref	If Blanche had been honest , she would have yelled , slammed at least a couple of doors , and thrown a few little , valueless things .
cr02.57.1	pre-adv	She would have yelled , slammed at least a couple of doors , and thrown a few little , valueless things , if Blanche had been honest .
cr02.61.0	ref	They were inseparable , not because they were fond of each other , but because they wanted to keep an eye on each other , as they were keen rivals for social leadership .
cr02.61.1	post-adv	Not because they were fond of each other , but because they wanted to keep an eye on each other , as they were keen rivals for social leadership , they were inseparable .
cr02.61.2	post-adv	They were inseparable , not because they were fond of each other , but because , as they were keen rivals for social leadership , they wanted to keep an eye on each other .
cr02.66.0	ref	Her uniform was of rich , raw silk , in a shade which matched her hair , skin , housepaint , and cats , and since she was so thin as to be almost shapeless , she rather resembled a frozen fish stick .
cr02.66.1	pre-adv	Her uniform was of rich , raw silk , in a shade which matched her hair , skin , housepaint , and cats , and she rather resembled a frozen fish stick , since she was so thin as to be almost shapeless .
cr02.75.0	ref	These boys acknowledged an introduction to anybody by gently pressing one of his hands in both of theirs , while they gazed , misty-eyed with care , into the eyes of the person they were meeting .
cr02.75.1	post-adv	These boys acknowledged an introduction to anybody by , while they gazed , misty-eyed with care , into the eyes of the person they were meeting , gently pressing one of his hands in both of theirs .
cr02.79.0	ref	I sighed , thinking that among other things , people here seemed to be those who would have to cut down if they earned less than $ 85,000 yearly ; people who would give their teeth for a chance to get on `` Person to Person '' ; people who thought it was nice to be important , but not important to be nice ; who were more ingratiating than gracious , more personalities than persons .
cr02.79.1	post-adv	I sighed , thinking that among other things , people here seemed to be those who if they earned less than $ 85,000 yearly would have to cut down ; people who would give their teeth for a chance to get on `` Person to Person '' ; people who thought it was nice to be important , but not important to be nice ; who were more ingratiating than gracious , more personalities than persons .
cr02.80.0	ref	In my estimation , they were people who read Daphne du Maurier , and discussed Kafka ; well , not discussed him exactly , but said , `` Kafka '' ! Reverently and raised their eyes , as if they were at a loss to describe how they felt about Kafka , which they were , because they had no opinions about Kafka , not having read Kafka .
cr02.80.1	post-adv	In my estimation , they were people who read Daphne du Maurier , and discussed Kafka ; well , not discussed him exactly , but , as if they were at a loss to describe how they felt about Kafka , which they were , because they had no opinions about Kafka , not having read Kafka , said , `` Kafka '' ! Reverently and raised their eyes .
cr02.80.2	post-adv	In my estimation , they were people who read Daphne du Maurier , and discussed Kafka ; well , not discussed him exactly , but said , `` Kafka '' ! Reverently and raised their eyes , as if they were at a loss to describe how they felt about Kafka , which , because they had no opinions about Kafka , not having read Kafka , they were .
cr02.84.0	ref	Then , I remembered that the girls had had a banana for dessert every day for the last week .
cr02.84.1	post-adj3	Then , I remembered that the girls had had a banana every day for dessert for the last week .
cr02.84.2	post-adj3	Then , I remembered that the girls had had a banana for the last week every day for dessert .
cr02.84.3	post-adj3	Then , I remembered that the girls had had a banana for dessert for the last week every day .
cr02.84.4	post-adj3	Then , I remembered that the girls had had a banana , for the last week , for dessert every day .
cr02.84.5	post-adj3	Then , I remembered that the girls had had a banana every day for the last week for dessert .
cr02.90.0	ref	-LRB- Sometimes I think you need only one rule for cooking : if you ca n't put garlic in it , put chocolate in it . -RRB-
cr02.90.1	pre-adv	-LRB- Sometimes I think you need only one rule for cooking : put chocolate in it , if you ca n't put garlic in it . -RRB-
cr02.92.0	ref	Then Jennie closed her eyes , stretched forth her arms , and said : `` Take my hand , Louise ; I 'm a stranger in paradise '' .
cr02.92.1	dat-np-np	Then Jennie closed her eyes , stretched forth her arms , and said : `` Take Louise , to my hand ; I 'm a stranger in paradise '' .
cr03.7.0	ref	After an unspeakable siege , lasting the better part of two months , it was announced that the studio `` owed '' the government a tax debt in excess of eight million dollars while I , who had always remained aloof from such iniquitous practices as paying taxes on the salary I had earned and the little I legally inherited as Morris ' helpless relict , was `` stung '' with a personal bill of such astronomical proportions as to `` wipe out '' all but a fraction of my poor , hard-come-by savings .
cr03.7.1	dat-np-np	After an unspeakable siege , lasting the better part of two months , it was announced that the studio `` owed '' a tax debt in excess of eight million dollars to the government while I , who had always remained aloof from such iniquitous practices as paying taxes on the salary I had earned and the little I legally inherited as Morris ' helpless relict , was `` stung '' with a personal bill of such astronomical proportions as to `` wipe out '' all but a fraction of my poor , hard-come-by savings .
cr03.7.2	post-adv	After an unspeakable siege , lasting the better part of two months , it while I , who had always remained aloof from such iniquitous practices as paying taxes on the salary I had earned and the little I legally inherited as Morris ' helpless relict , was `` stung '' with a personal bill of such astronomical proportions as to `` wipe out '' all but a fraction of my poor , hard-come-by savings was announced that the studio `` owed '' the government a tax debt in excess of eight million dollars .
cr03.11.0	ref	I fought like a tigress but by the time I appealed my case to the Supreme Court -LRB- 1937 -RRB- , Mr. Roosevelt and his `` henchmen '' had done their `` dirty work '' all too well , even going so far as to attempt to `` pack '' the highest tribunal in the land in order to defeat little me .
cr03.11.1	post-adv	I fought like a tigress but by the time I appealed my case to the Supreme Court -LRB- 1937 -RRB- , Mr. Roosevelt and his `` henchmen '' had done their `` dirty work '' all too well , even going so far as to attempt in order to defeat little me to `` pack '' the highest tribunal in the land .
cr03.18.0	ref	As Charles Evans Hughes said , `` Miss Poitrine 's limitations as an actress are exceeded only by her logic as a litigant '' .
cr03.18.1	pre-adv	`` Miss Poitrine 's limitations as an actress are exceeded only by her logic as a litigant , as Charles Evans Hughes said '' .
cr03.18.2	post-adj2	As Charles Evans Hughes said , `` Miss Poitrine 's limitations as an actress are exceeded by her logic as a litigant only '' .
cr03.20.0	ref	Henry Ford spoke of me as `` utterly astounding '' .
cr03.20.1	post-adj2	Henry Ford spoke as `` utterly astounding '' of me .
cr03.21.0	ref	Heywood Broun wrote : `` Belle Poitrine is the most original thinker since Caligula '' , and even F.D.R. had to concede that `` if the rest of this nation showed the foresight and patriotism of Miss Poitrine , America would rapidly resemble ancient Babylon and Nineveh '' .
cr03.21.1	pre-adv	Heywood Broun wrote : `` Belle Poitrine is the most original thinker since Caligula '' , and even F.D.R. had to concede that `` America would rapidly resemble ancient Babylon and Nineveh , if the rest of this nation showed the foresight and patriotism of Miss Poitrine '' .
cr03.23.0	ref	Nor , as Manny said , had the notoriety done my career `` any good '' .
cr03.23.1	dat-np-np	Nor , as Manny said , had the notoriety done any good `` to my career '' .
cr03.26.0	ref	I point now with pride to the fact that , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of , I was Hollywood 's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks .
cr03.26.1	pre-adv	I point now with pride to the fact that , I was Hollywood 's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of .
cr03.26.2	post-adj3	I point with pride now to the fact that , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of , I was Hollywood 's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks .
cr03.26.3	post-adj3	I point to the fact that , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of , I was Hollywood 's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks with pride now .
cr03.26.4	post-adj3	I point now to the fact that , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of , I was Hollywood 's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks with pride .
cr03.26.5	post-adj3	I point to the fact that , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of , I was Hollywood 's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks now with pride .
cr03.26.6	post-adj3	I point with pride to the fact that , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable `` watchdog '' organizations were so much as heard of , I was Hollywood 's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly `` creeping socialism '' against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular `` relief '' checks now .
cr03.27.0	ref	Needless to say , my art suffered drastically during this turbulent period .
cr03.27.1	post-adj2	Needless to say , my art suffered during this turbulent period drastically .
cr03.29.0	ref	Even though I have always had a genius for `` throwing myself '' into every role and `` playing it for all it 's worth '' , no actress can be expected to do her best work when her fortune , her reputation , her livelihood , her home and her nation itself are all imperilled .
cr03.29.1	post-adv	Even though I have always had a genius for `` throwing myself '' into every role and `` playing it for all it 's worth '' , no actress can when her fortune , her reputation , her livelihood , her home and her nation itself are all imperilled be expected to do her best work .
cr03.29.2	pre-adv	No actress can be expected to do her best work when her fortune , her reputation , her livelihood , her home and her nation itself are all imperilled , even though I have always had a genius for `` throwing myself '' into every role and `` playing it for all it 's worth '' .
cr03.33.0	ref	Never a `` quick study '' , he now made no attempt to learn his `` lines '' and many a mile of film was wasted , many a scene -- sometimes involving as many as a thousand fellow thespians -- was taken thirty , forty , fifty times because Miss Poitrine 's co-star and `` helpmate '' had never learned his part .
cr03.33.1	post-adv	Never a `` quick study '' , he now made no attempt to learn his `` lines '' and many a mile of film was wasted , many a scene -- sometimes involving as many as a thousand fellow thespians -- because Miss Poitrine 's co-star and `` helpmate '' had never learned his part was taken thirty , forty , fifty times .
cr03.34.0	ref	Each time Letch `` went up '' in his `` lines '' , I was the one to be patient , helpful and apologetic while he indulged in outbursts of temperament , profanity and abuse , blaming others , going into `` sulks '' and , on more occasions than I care to count , storming off the `` set '' for the rest of the day .
cr03.34.1	post-adv	While he indulged in outbursts of temperament , profanity and abuse , blaming others , going into `` sulks '' and , on more occasions than I care to count , storming off the `` set '' for the rest of the day each time Letch `` went up '' in his `` lines '' , I was the one to be patient , helpful and apologetic .
cr03.37.0	ref	Never once did he buy me a single gift and for our third anniversary he gave me a dislocated jaw .
cr03.37.1	dat-np-np	Never once did he buy me a single gift and for our third anniversary he gave a dislocated jaw to me .
cr03.43.0	ref	Having the deepest of maternal instincts , my heart fairly bled when I thought of the darling pink and white `` bundles from heaven '' I would have proudly given my husband .
cr03.43.1	post-adv	When I thought of the darling pink and white `` bundles from heaven '' I would have proudly given my husband Having the deepest of maternal instincts , my heart fairly bled .
cr03.44.0	ref	`` Ah , you 're too old '' , was invariably his ungallant and untrue retort whenever I suggested `` starting a family '' .
cr03.44.1	post-adv	Whenever I suggested `` starting a family '' `` ah , you 're too old '' , was invariably his ungallant and untrue retort .
cr03.46.0	ref	I now felt it wiser to keep Baby-dear in school and -- during the summers -- at a camp run by the Society of Friends all year around .
cr03.46.1	post-adj2	I now felt it wiser to keep Baby-dear all year around in school and -- during the summers -- at a camp run by the Society of Friends .
cr03.50.0	ref	Yet I adored this man , Letch Feeley , why , I can not say .
cr03.50.1	post-adv	Why , I can not say , yet I adored this man , Letch Feeley .
cr03.55.0	ref	As Letch 's antisocial conduct increased , our invitations decreased and my heart was in my mouth whenever I played hostess at a fashionable `` screenland '' gathering .
cr03.55.1	post-adv	As Letch 's antisocial conduct increased , our invitations decreased and whenever I played hostess at a fashionable `` screenland '' gathering my heart was in my mouth .
cr03.55.2	pre-adv	Our invitations decreased , as Letch 's antisocial conduct increased , and my heart was in my mouth whenever I played hostess at a fashionable `` screenland '' gathering .
cr03.56.0	ref	Between 1935 and 1939 Letch and I made ten films together , each less successful , both artistically and commercially , than the one before it .
cr03.56.1	dat-np-np	Between 1935 and 1939 Letch and I made each less successful , both artistically and commercially , than the one before it together , to ten films .
cr03.57.0	ref	Our last joint venture , Sainted Lady , a deeply religious film based on the life of Mother Cabrini , and timed so that its release date would coincide with the beatification of America 's first saint in November , 1938 , was a fiasco from start to finish .
cr03.57.1	post-adv	Our last joint venture , Sainted Lady , a deeply religious film so that its release date would coincide with the beatification of America 's first saint in November , 1938 based on the life of Mother Cabrini , and timed , was a fiasco from start to finish .
cr03.58.0	ref	As I was playing Mother Cabrini , the picture was actually `` all mine '' , with nearly every scene built around me .
cr03.58.1	post-adv	With nearly every scene built around me , as I was playing Mother Cabrini , the picture was actually `` all mine '' .
cr03.58.2	pre-adv	The picture was actually `` all mine '' , with nearly every scene built around me , as I was playing Mother Cabrini .
cr03.59.0	ref	But in order to keep Letch in the public eye and out of trouble , I wrote in a part especially for him -- that of a dashing ruffian who `` sees the light '' and is saved by the inspiring example of Mother Cabrini .
cr03.59.1	pre-adv	But I wrote in a part especially for him -- that of a dashing ruffian who `` sees the light '' and is saved by the inspiring example of Mother Cabrini , in order to keep Letch in the public eye and out of trouble .
cr03.61.0	ref	Did he trouble to memorize the very small part which I had `` tailor-made '' to his specifications , a role eventually cut down to three short speeches ?
cr03.61.1	post-adj2	Did he trouble to memorize the very small part which I had `` tailor-made '' to his specifications , a role eventually cut to three short speeches down ?
cr03.62.0	ref	Did he show the rest of the cast -- numbering four thousand -- the consideration of arriving at the studio punctually -- or even at all ?
cr03.62.1	dat-np-np	Did he show the consideration of arriving at the studio punctually -- or even at all to the rest of the cast -- numbering four thousand ?
cr03.62.2	post-adj2	Did he show the rest of the cast -- numbering four thousand -- the consideration of arriving punctually at the studio -- or even at all ?
cr03.66.0	ref	Whenever he deigned to appear at the studio he was `` hung over '' , uncooperative , rude and insulting .
cr03.66.1	pre-adv	He was `` hung over '' , uncooperative , rude and insulting whenever he deigned to appear at the studio .
cr03.70.0	ref	Only George Santayana seemed to understand and appreciate the film when he wrote : `` Miss Poitrine has perpetrated the most eloquent argument for the Protestant faith yet unleashed by Hollywood '' .
cr03.70.1	post-adv	When he wrote : `` Miss Poitrine has perpetrated the most eloquent argument for the Protestant faith yet unleashed by Hollywood '' only George Santayana seemed to understand and appreciate the film .
cr03.72.0	ref	In a rare fit of anger and spite , I `` farmed out '' my own husband to a small and most undistinguished studio to make one picture as a form of punishment .
cr03.72.1	post-adj2	In a rare fit of anger and spite , I `` farmed out '' my own husband as a form of punishment to make one picture to a small and most undistinguished studio .
cr03.79.0	ref	At the same time , however , I availed myself of the services of that great English actor and master of make-up , Sir Gauntley Pratt , to do a `` quickie '' called The Mystery of the Mad Marquess , in which I played a young American girl who inherits a haunted castle on the English moors which is filled with secret passages and sliding panels and , unbeknownst to anyone , is still occupied by an eccentric maniac .
cr03.79.1	pre-adj2	However , at the same time , I availed myself of the services of that great English actor and master of make-up , Sir Gauntley Pratt , to do a `` quickie '' called The Mystery of the Mad Marquess , in which I played a young American girl who inherits a haunted castle on the English moors which is filled with secret passages and sliding panels and , unbeknownst to anyone , is still occupied by an eccentric maniac .
cr03.80.0	ref	It was a `` potboiler '' made on a `` shoestring '' and not the sort of film I like , as all I had to do was look blank and scream a great deal .
cr03.80.1	post-adv	It , as all I had to do was look blank and scream a great deal , was a `` potboiler '' made on a `` shoestring '' and not the sort of film I like .
cr03.82.0	ref	-LRB- I watched it on television late one night last week and it `` stands up '' remarkably well , even twenty years later . -RRB-
cr03.82.1	post-adj3	-LRB- I watched it late one night on television last week and it `` stands up '' remarkably well , even twenty years later . -RRB-
cr03.82.2	post-adj3	-LRB- I watched it last week late one night on television and it `` stands up '' remarkably well , even twenty years later . -RRB-
cr03.82.3	post-adj3	-LRB- I watched it on television last week late one night and it `` stands up '' remarkably well , even twenty years later . -RRB-
cr03.82.4	post-adj3	-LRB- I watched it , last week , on television late one night and it `` stands up '' remarkably well , even twenty years later . -RRB-
cr03.82.5	post-adj3	-LRB- I watched it late one night last week , on television , and it `` stands up '' remarkably well , even twenty years later . -RRB-
cr03.89.0	ref	`` I ca n't turn the studio into a gambling hell or a saloon '' , I said .
cr03.89.1	quote	`` I ca n't turn the studio into a gambling hell or a saloon '' , said I .
cr04.1.0	ref	Up to date , however , his garden was still more or less of a mess , he had n't even started his workshop and if there was a meadow pond in the neighborhood he had n't found it .
cr04.1.1	pre-adv	Up to date , however , his garden was still more or less of a mess , he had n't even started his workshop and he had n't found it if there was a meadow pond in the neighborhood .
cr04.5.0	ref	Once he disposed of these items which screamed so harshly for attention , he could undertake the things which really counted .
cr04.5.1	pre-adv	He could undertake the things which really counted , once he disposed of these items which screamed so harshly for attention .
cr04.8.0	ref	He had almost forgotten them , although they had played such an important part in his early dreams .
cr04.8.1	post-adv	He , although they had played such an important part in his early dreams , had almost forgotten them .
cr04.12.0	ref	Regardless of how much of a slob you knew yourself to be , you could be certain they would never find out -- and even if they did it would make no difference .
cr04.12.1	pre-adv	Regardless of how much of a slob you knew yourself to be , you could be certain they would never find out -- and it would make no difference even if they did .
cr04.14.0	ref	What in the world were you going to do with a lot of dogs when you left for town on Monday afternoons ?
cr04.14.1	post-adv	What in the world when you left for town on Monday afternoons were you going to do with a lot of dogs ?
cr04.15.0	ref	You certainly could n't take them into the little apartment and if you tried to farm them out for two or three days every week they would become so confused that they would have nervous breakdowns .
cr04.15.1	pre-adv	You certainly could n't take them into the little apartment and they would become so confused that they would have nervous breakdowns if you tried to farm them out for two or three days every week .
cr04.19.0	ref	How in the world had he formerly found time to build up a business , raise a family , be on half a dozen boards , work actively on committees and either go out in the evening or plow through the contents of a bulging brief case ?
cr04.19.1	post-adj2	How in the world had he formerly found time to build up a business , raise a family , be on half a dozen boards , work on committees actively and either go out in the evening or plow through the contents of a bulging brief case ?
cr04.20.0	ref	Was it possible that as people grow older the nature of time changed ?
cr04.20.1	pre-adv	Was it possible that the nature of time changed as people grow older ?
cr04.21.0	ref	Could it be that it speeded up for the aged in some mysterious way , as if a bored universe were skipping through the end of the chapter just to get it over with ?
cr04.21.1	post-adv	Could it be that , as if a bored universe were skipping through the end of the chapter just to get it over with , it speeded up for the aged in some mysterious way ?
cr04.21.2	post-adj2	Could it be that it speeded up in some mysterious way for the aged , as if a bored universe were skipping through the end of the chapter just to get it over with ?
cr04.25.0	ref	Did men become perfectionists as they grew older , polishing , polishing , reluctant to let go ?
cr04.25.1	post-adv	As they grew older , did men become perfectionists polishing , polishing , reluctant to let go ?
cr04.26.0	ref	It might be that certain people were born with a compulsion to complicate their lives , while others could live blissfully motionless almost indefinitely , like lizards in the sun , too indolent to blink their eyes .
cr04.26.1	post-adv	It might be that certain people , while others could live blissfully motionless almost indefinitely , like lizards in the sun , too indolent to blink their eyes , were born with a compulsion to complicate their lives .
cr04.28.0	ref	And then again perhaps the reason why he could n't find time to do any of the things he had planned to do after retirement : reading , roaming , gardening , lying on his back and watching the clouds go by , was because he did n't want to do them .
cr04.28.1	pre-adj2	And perhaps then again the reason why he could n't find time to do any of the things he had planned to do after retirement : reading , roaming , gardening , lying on his back and watching the clouds go by , was because he did n't want to do them .
cr04.36.0	ref	He turned over impatiently and pulled the sheet over his head against the treacherous encroachment of the dawn .
cr04.36.1	post-adj2	He turned impatiently over and pulled the sheet over his head against the treacherous encroachment of the dawn .
cr04.44.0	ref	Add things as you find you need 'em '' .
cr04.44.1	post-adv	As you find you need 'em add things '' .
cr04.46.0	ref	After all , if you were going to set up a workshop you had to have the proper equipment and that was that .
cr04.46.1	pre-adv	After all , you had to have the proper equipment if you were going to set up a workshop and that was that .
cr04.47.0	ref	When he returned home , the station wagon loaded with tools , Jinny had gone with a friend to some meeting in the village , using the recently purchased second car .
cr04.47.1	pre-adv	The station wagon loaded with tools , Jinny had gone with a friend to some meeting in the village , using the recently purchased second car , when he returned home .
cr04.49.0	ref	It gave him a chance to unload the stuff and get it down to the cellar without a barrage of acid comments .
cr04.49.1	dat-np-np	It gave a chance to unload the stuff and get it down to the cellar without a barrage of acid comments to him .
cr04.51.0	ref	He piled everything neatly in a corner of the cellar and turned to stare at the blank stone wall .
cr04.51.1	post-adj2	He piled everything in a corner of the cellar neatly and turned to stare at the blank stone wall .
cr04.54.0	ref	The old nightmare which had caused him so many wakeful hours came charging in on him once more , only this time he could n't pacify it with a sleeping pill and send it away .
cr04.54.1	dat-np-np	The old nightmare which had caused so many wakeful hours to him came charging in on him once more , only this time he could n't pacify it with a sleeping pill and send it away .
cr04.54.2	pre-adj2	The old nightmare which had caused him so many wakeful hours came charging in on him once more , this time only he could n't pacify it with a sleeping pill and send it away .
cr04.56.0	ref	How did one attach anything to a stone wall , for that matter ?
cr04.56.1	post-adj2	How did one attach anything for that matter , to a stone wall ?
cr04.58.0	ref	He sat down on an old box and focused on the problem .
cr04.58.1	post-adj2	He sat on an old box down and focused on the problem .
cr04.59.0	ref	Perhaps one bored holes in the stone with some kind of an electric gadget .
cr04.59.1	post-adj2	Perhaps one bored holes with some kind of an electric gadget in the stone .
cr04.64.0	ref	A workbench had a heavy top and sturdy legs , but how did you attach sturdy legs to a heavy top so that the whole thing did n't wobble like a newborn calf and ultimately collapse when you leaned on it ?
cr04.64.1	post-adv	A workbench had a heavy top and sturdy legs , but how so that the whole thing did n't wobble like a newborn calf and ultimately collapse when you leaned on it did you attach sturdy legs to a heavy top ?
cr04.64.2	post-adv	A workbench had a heavy top and sturdy legs , but how did you attach sturdy legs to a heavy top so that the whole thing did n't when you leaned on it wobble like a newborn calf and ultimately collapse ?
cr04.65.0	ref	Mr. Mills had done some figuring on a scrap of paper and given him the various kinds of boards and two-by-fours which , properly handled , would , he had assured him , turn into a workbench .
cr04.65.1	dat-np-np	Mr. Mills had done some figuring on a scrap of paper and given the various kinds of boards and two-by-fours which , properly handled , would , he had assured him , turn into a workbench to him .
cr04.66.0	ref	They lay on the cellar floor in a disorderly pile .
cr04.66.1	post-adj2	They lay in a disorderly pile on the cellar floor .
cr04.67.0	ref	Mr. Crombie poked at it gingerly with his foot .
cr04.67.1	post-adj3	Mr. Crombie poked gingerly at it with his foot .
cr04.67.2	post-adj3	Mr. Crombie poked with his foot gingerly at it .
cr04.67.3	post-adj3	Mr. Crombie poked at it with his foot gingerly .
cr04.67.4	post-adj3	Mr. Crombie poked with his foot at it gingerly .
cr04.67.5	post-adj3	Mr. Crombie poked gingerly with his foot at it .
cr04.70.0	ref	Then at least he would have a place to hang his tools and something to work on .
cr04.70.1	pre-adj2	At least then he would have a place to hang his tools and something to work on .
cr04.82.0	ref	Nobody liked to hire him because you never could tell when he was going to be taken drunk .
cr04.82.1	post-adv	Because you never could tell when he was going to be taken drunk nobody liked to hire him .
cr04.83.0	ref	Mr. Crumb would probably see him at Lodge Meeting the next night .
cr04.83.1	post-adj2	Mr. Crumb would probably see him the next night at Lodge Meeting .
cr04.84.0	ref	If he was sober , which was doubtful , he 'd have him get in touch with Mr. Crombie .
cr04.84.1	pre-adv	He 'd have him get in touch with Mr. Crombie , if he was sober , which was doubtful .
cr04.84.2	post-adj2	If he was sober , which was doubtful , he 'd have him get with Mr. Crombie in touch .
cr04.85.0	ref	Mr. Blatz had been at least sober enough to remember to telephone and he turned out to be the greatest boon that had come into Mr. Crombie 's life since he moved to Highfield , in spite of the fact that he did n't work very fast or very long at a time , and he did n't like to work at all unless Mr. Crombie hung around and talked to him .
cr04.85.1	post-adv	Mr. Blatz had been at least sober enough to remember to telephone and he turned out to be the greatest boon that since he moved to Highfield had come into Mr. Crombie 's life , in spite of the fact that he did n't work very fast or very long at a time , and he did n't like to work at all unless Mr. Crombie hung around and talked to him .
cr04.85.2	post-adv	Mr. Blatz had been at least sober enough to remember to telephone and he turned out to be the greatest boon that had come into Mr. Crombie 's life since he moved to Highfield , in spite of the fact that he did n't work very fast or very long at a time , and he unless Mr. Crombie hung around and talked to him did n't like to work at all .
cr04.86.0	ref	He said he was the lonely type and working in a cellar you saw funny things coming out of the cracks in the wall if they was n't nobody with you .
cr04.86.1	post-adv	He said he was the lonely type and if they was n't nobody with you working in a cellar you saw funny things coming out of the cracks in the wall .
cr04.87.0	ref	So Mr. Crombie sat on a wooden box and talked in order to keep Mr. Blatz 's mind from funny things .
cr04.87.1	post-adv	In order to keep Mr. Blatz 's mind from funny things so Mr. Crombie sat on a wooden box and talked .
cr04.89.0	ref	While Mr. Blatz was putting up the pegboards and starting the workbench , Mr. Crombie told him of this idea about paneling the whole end of the cellar .
cr04.89.1	pre-adv	Mr. Crombie told him of this idea about paneling the whole end of the cellar , while Mr. Blatz was putting up the pegboards and starting the workbench .
cr04.91.0	ref	Without further discussion he appeared the next morning with a pile of boards sticking over the end of his light truck and proceeded with the paneling , which he then stained and waxed according to his taste .
cr04.91.1	post-adj2	Without further discussion he appeared with a pile of boards sticking over the end of his light truck the next morning and proceeded with the paneling , which he then stained and waxed according to his taste .
cr04.92.0	ref	`` Now '' , he said , `` we got to put in some outlets for them power tools ; then a couple of fluorescent lamps over the workbench an ' I guess we 're about through down here '' .
cr04.92.1	post-adj2	`` Now '' , he said , `` we got to put in some outlets for them power tools ; then a couple of fluorescent lamps over the workbench an ' I guess we 're down here about through '' .
cr04.97.0	ref	Before you use 'em the light company 's got to run in a heavy line and you 'll need a new fuse box for the extra circuits .
cr04.97.1	pre-adv	The light company 's got to run in a heavy line before you use 'em and you 'll need a new fuse box for the extra circuits .
cr04.103.0	ref	Mr. Blatz sat down in the only unoccupied kitchen chair .
cr04.103.1	post-adj2	Mr. Blatz sat in the only unoccupied kitchen chair down .
cr04.104.0	ref	`` Well '' , he said , `` got your man fixed up nice down there .
cr04.104.1	post-adj2	`` Well '' , he said , `` got your man fixed up down there nice .
cr04.109.0	ref	`` Oh , that 's wonderful '' , cried Mrs. Crombie .
cr04.109.1	iquote	`` Oh , that 's wonderful '' , Mrs. Crombie cried .
cr04.112.0	ref	`` But those are the things I built the workshop for '' , protested Mr. Crombie .
cr04.112.1	iquote	`` But those are the things I built the workshop for '' , Mr. Crombie protested .
cr04.114.0	ref	`` I 've been waiting to get these things done for months '' , she said .
cr04.114.1	quote	`` I 've been waiting to get these things done for months '' , said she .
cr04.115.0	ref	`` We wo n't live long enough if I wait for you , besides which you do n't need to worry -- there 'll be plenty more '' .
cr04.115.1	post-adv	`` We if I wait for you wo n't live long enough , besides which you do n't need to worry -- there 'll be plenty more '' .
cr05.2.0	ref	Nothing in English has been ridiculed as much as the ambiguous use of words , unless it be the ambiguous use of sentences .
cr05.2.1	post-adv	Nothing in English has , unless it be the ambiguous use of sentences , been ridiculed as much as the ambiguous use of words .
cr05.7.0	ref	There are many types of ambiguity and many of them have been described by rhetoricians under such names as amphibology , parisology , and other ologies .
cr05.7.1	post-adj2	There are many types of ambiguity and many of them have been described under such names as amphibology , parisology , and other ologies by rhetoricians .
cr05.11.0	ref	Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent them one last year but they did n't send us one , so they probably wo n't send us one this year because they 'll think we wo n't send them one because they did n't last year , do n't you think , or shall we '' ?
cr05.11.1	dat-np-np	Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent one to them last year but they did n't send us one , so they probably wo n't send us one this year because they 'll think we wo n't send them one because they did n't last year , do n't you think , or shall we '' ?
cr05.11.2	dat-np-np	Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent them one last year but they did n't send one to us , so they probably wo n't send us one this year because they 'll think we wo n't send them one because they did n't last year , do n't you think , or shall we '' ?
cr05.11.3	dat-np-np	Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent them one last year but they did n't send us one , so they probably wo n't send one to us this year because they 'll think we wo n't send them one because they did n't last year , do n't you think , or shall we '' ?
cr05.11.4	dat-np-np	Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent them one last year but they did n't send us one , so they probably wo n't send us one this year because they 'll think we wo n't send one to them because they did n't last year , do n't you think , or shall we '' ?
cr05.11.5	post-adv	Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent them one last year but they did n't send us one , so they probably because they 'll think we wo n't send them one because they did n't last year wo n't send us one this year , do n't you think , or shall we '' ?
cr05.11.6	post-adv	Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent them one last year but they did n't send us one , so they probably wo n't send us one this year because they 'll think we because they did n't last year wo n't send them one , do n't you think , or shall we '' ?
cr05.12.0	ref	Such ambiguous exercises compound confusion by making it worse compounded , and they are sometimes expanded until the cream of the jest sours .
cr05.12.1	post-adv	Such ambiguous exercises compound confusion by making it worse compounded , and they until the cream of the jest sours are sometimes expanded .
cr05.14.0	ref	`` I 'm terribly upset '' , she told a girl-friend .
cr05.14.1	quote	`` I 'm terribly upset '' , told she a girl-friend .
cr05.22.0	ref	Similarly , when a reporter once questioned Lincoln in cryptic fashion , Lincoln refused to make any further statement .
cr05.22.1	pre-adv	Similarly Lincoln refused to make any further statement , when a reporter once questioned Lincoln in cryptic fashion .
cr05.27.0	ref	`` It took me five hours to write it that way '' .
cr05.27.1	dat-np-np	`` It took five hours to me to write it that way '' .
cr05.27.2	dat-np-np	`` It took me five hours to write that way to it '' .
cr05.28.0	ref	The misplaced modifier is another species more honored in the observance of obscurity than in the breach .
cr05.28.1	post-adj2	The misplaced modifier is another species more honored than in the breach in the observance of obscurity .
cr05.29.0	ref	This creates an amusing effect because its position in a sentence seems to make it apply to the wrong word .
cr05.29.1	post-adv	Because its position in a sentence seems to make it apply to the wrong word this creates an amusing effect .
cr05.35.0	ref	Another stock vaudeville gag ran : `` Mother is home sick in bed with the doctor '' .
cr05.35.1	post-adj2	Another stock vaudeville gag ran : `` Mother is with the doctor sick in bed home '' .
cr05.36.0	ref	When radio came in , it continued the misplaced modifier in its routines as a standard device .
cr05.36.1	pre-adv	It continued the misplaced modifier in its routines as a standard device , when radio came in .
cr05.40.0	ref	In one cartoon a family is shown outside a theater with the head of the family addressing the doorman : `` Excuse me , but when we came out we found that we had left my daughter 's handbag and my wife 's behind '' .
cr05.40.1	pre-adv	In one cartoon a family is shown outside a theater with the head of the family addressing the doorman : `` Excuse me , but we found that we had left my daughter 's handbag and my wife 's behind when we came out '' .
cr05.40.2	post-adj2	In one cartoon a family is shown with the head of the family addressing the doorman : `` Excuse me , but when we came out we found that we had left my daughter 's handbag and my wife 's behind '' outside a theater .
cr05.45.0	ref	Since brevity is the soul of ambiguity as well as wit , newspaper headlines continually provide us with amusing samples .
cr05.45.1	pre-adv	Newspaper headlines continually provide us with amusing samples , since brevity is the soul of ambiguity as well as wit .
cr05.55.0	ref	This slip is so-called because its semi-ambiguous English always seems to refer to a person 's anatomy but never quite means what it seems to say .
cr05.55.1	post-adv	This slip because its semi-ambiguous English always seems to refer to a person 's anatomy but never quite means what it seems to say is so-called .
cr05.56.0	ref	Samples : He walked in upon her invitation .
cr05.56.1	post-adj2	Samples : He walked upon her invitation in .
cr05.57.0	ref	She kissed him passionately upon his reappearance .
cr05.57.1	post-adj2	She kissed him upon his reappearance passionately .
cr05.61.0	ref	`` While Henry Morgan was escorting Miss Vera Green from the church social last Saturday night , a savage dog attacked them and bit Mr. Morgan on the public square '' .
cr05.61.1	pre-adv	A savage dog attacked them and bit Mr. Morgan on the public square `` while Henry Morgan was escorting Miss Vera Green from the church social last Saturday night '' .
cr05.61.2	post-adj2	`` While Henry Morgan was escorting Miss Vera Green last Saturday night from the church social , a savage dog attacked them and bit Mr. Morgan on the public square '' .
cr05.64.0	ref	When a witness at court was asked if he had been kicked in the ensuing rumpus , he replied , `` No , it was in the stomach '' .
cr05.64.1	pre-adv	He replied , `` No , it was in the stomach '' , when a witness at court was asked if he had been kicked in the ensuing rumpus .
cr05.75.0	ref	`` That 's silly -- lemon in mouth '' , she said .
cr05.75.1	quote	`` That 's silly -- lemon in mouth '' , said she .
cr05.76.0	ref	But since the gourmet insisted that it is done that way at the most fashionable dinners , the girl reluctantly agreed .
cr05.76.1	pre-adv	But the girl reluctantly agreed , since the gourmet insisted that it is done that way at the most fashionable dinners .
cr05.82.0	ref	When a customer asked for alligator shoes , she said , `` What size is your alligator '' ?
cr05.82.1	pre-adv	She said , `` What size is your alligator '' , when a customer asked for alligator shoes ?
cr05.86.0	ref	`` Oh , I 'm so delighted to meet you '' , she gushed .
cr05.86.1	quote	`` Oh , I 'm so delighted to meet you '' , gushed she .
cr05.88.0	ref	This baffling lack of distinct details recalls the secretary whose employer was leaving the office and told her what to answer if anyone called in his absence .
cr05.88.1	post-adv	This baffling lack of distinct details recalls the secretary whose employer was leaving the office and told her what if anyone called in his absence to answer .
cr05.92.0	ref	An old-fashioned mother said to her modern daughter , `` You must have gotten in quite late last night , dear .
cr05.92.1	dat-np-np	An old-fashioned mother said to her modern daughter , `` You must have gotten in quite late dear , to last night .
cr05.100.0	ref	`` Dearly beloved '' , he preached , `` unless you repent of your sins in a measure , and become converted to a degree , you will , I regret to say , be damned to a more or less extent '' .
cr05.100.1	pre-adv	`` Dearly beloved '' , he preached , you will , I regret to say , be damned to a more or less extent `` unless you repent of your sins in a measure , and become converted to a degree '' .
cr05.100.2	post-adj2	`` Dearly beloved '' , he preached , `` unless you repent in a measure of your sins , and become converted to a degree , you will , I regret to say , be damned to a more or less extent '' .
cr05.105.0	ref	A news item described the launching of a ship : `` Completing the ceremony , the beautiful movie star smashed a bottle of champagne over her stern as she slid gracefully down the ways into the sea '' .
cr05.105.1	post-adv	A news item described the launching of a ship : `` as she slid gracefully down the ways into the sea Completing the ceremony , the beautiful movie star smashed a bottle of champagne over her stern '' .
cr05.110.0	ref	`` If you can fix it up with the undertaker '' , returned the politician , `` it 's all right with me '' .
cr05.110.1	pre-adv	Returned the politician , `` it 's all right with me `` if you can fix it up with the undertaker '' .
cr05.112.0	ref	`` What have you got on today '' ? She inquired .
cr05.112.1	post-adj2	`` What have you got today on '' ? She inquired .
cr05.115.0	ref	`` I am '' , he said .
cr05.115.1	quote	`` I am '' , said he .
cr05.119.0	ref	When a question contains two verbs , the response does not make clear which of them is being answered .
cr05.119.1	pre-adv	The response does not make clear which of them is being answered , when a question contains two verbs .
cr05.122.0	ref	`` That 's one thing I 've never done '' , she said promptly .
cr05.122.1	quote	`` That 's one thing I 've never done '' , said she promptly .
cr05.127.0	ref	Another less ambiguous case read as follows : `` The bearer of this letter has served me for two years to his complete satisfaction .
cr05.127.1	post-adj2	Another less ambiguous case read as follows : `` The bearer of this letter has served me to his complete satisfaction for two years .
cr05.128.0	ref	If you are thinking of giving him a berth , be sure to make it a wide one '' .
cr05.128.1	dat-np-np	If you are thinking of giving a berth to him , be sure to make it a wide one '' .
cr05.128.2	pre-adv	Be sure to make it a wide one , if you are thinking of giving him a berth '' .
cr05.130.0	ref	Ambiguity arises when the pronoun it carries a twofold reference .
cr05.130.1	post-adv	When the pronoun it carries a twofold reference ambiguity arises .
cr05.132.0	ref	One said , `` When I get a cold I buy a bottle of whiskey for it , and within a few hours it 's gone '' .
cr05.132.1	pre-adv	One said , `` I buy a bottle of whiskey for it , when I get a cold , and within a few hours it 's gone '' .
cr05.134.0	ref	It-wit is a misnomer because it covers slips as well as wit .
cr05.134.1	post-adv	Because it covers slips as well as wit it-wit is a misnomer .
cr06.1.0	ref	I called the other afternoon on my old friend , Graves Moreland , the Anglo-American literary critic -- his mother was born in Ohio -- who lives alone in a fairy-tale cottage on the Upson Downs , raising hell and peacocks , the former only when the venerable gentleman becomes an angry old man about the state of literature or something else that is dwindling and diminishing , such as human stature , hope , and humor .
cr06.1.1	post-adj2	I called on my old friend , Graves Moreland , the Anglo-American literary critic -- his mother was born in Ohio -- who lives alone in a fairy-tale cottage on the Upson Downs , raising hell and peacocks the other afternoon , the former only when the venerable gentleman becomes an angry old man about the state of literature or something else that is dwindling and diminishing , such as human stature , hope , and humor .
cr06.3.0	ref	After Gagarin became the Greatest Man in the World , for a nation that does not believe in the cult of personality or in careerism , Moreland wrote me a letter in which he said : `` I am not interested in how long a bee can live in a vacuum , or how far it can fly .
cr06.3.1	dat-np-np	After Gagarin became the Greatest Man in the World , for a nation that does not believe in the cult of personality or in careerism , Moreland wrote a letter in which he said : `` I am not interested in how long a bee can live in a vacuum , or how far it can fly to me .
cr06.3.2	pre-adv	Moreland wrote me a letter in which he said : `` I am not interested in how long a bee can live in a vacuum , or how far it can fly , after Gagarin became the Greatest Man in the World , for a nation that does not believe in the cult of personality or in careerism .
cr06.5.0	ref	`` I have come to talk with you about the future of humor and comedy '' , I told him , at which he started slightly , and then made us each a stiff drink , with a trembling hand .
cr06.5.1	dat-np-np	`` I have come to talk with you about the future of humor and comedy '' , I told him , at which he started slightly , and then made a stiff drink to us each , with a trembling hand .
cr06.5.2	quote	`` I have come to talk with you about the future of humor and comedy '' , told I him , at which he started slightly , and then made us each a stiff drink , with a trembling hand .
cr06.5.3	post-adj2	`` I have come to talk about the future of humor and comedy with you '' , I told him , at which he started slightly , and then made us each a stiff drink , with a trembling hand .
cr06.6.0	ref	`` I seem to remember '' , he said , `` that in an interview ten years ago you gave humor and comedy five years to live .
cr06.6.1	dat-np-np	`` I seem to remember '' , he said , `` that in an interview ten years ago you gave five years to live to humor and comedy .
cr06.8.0	ref	`` I was wrong '' , I admitted .
cr06.8.1	quote	`` I was wrong '' , admitted I .
cr06.18.0	ref	Moreland fixed us each another drink , and said , `` For God 's sake , tell me something truly amusing '' .
cr06.18.1	dat-np-np	Moreland fixed us each another drink , and said , `` For God 's sake , tell something truly amusing to me '' .
cr06.19.0	ref	`` I 'll try '' , I said , and sat for a moment thinking .
cr06.19.1	quote	`` I 'll try '' , said , and sat I for a moment thinking .
cr06.23.0	ref	I took a deep breath and an even deeper swallow of my drink , and said , `` I admit that going back to Ralph Waldo Emerson for humor is like going to a modern musical comedy for music and comedy '' .
cr06.23.1	post-adj3	I took a deep breath and an even deeper swallow of my drink , and said , `` I admit that going to Ralph Waldo Emerson back for humor is like going to a modern musical comedy for music and comedy '' .
cr06.23.2	post-adj3	I took a deep breath and an even deeper swallow of my drink , and said , `` I admit that going for humor to Ralph Waldo Emerson back is like going to a modern musical comedy for music and comedy '' .
cr06.23.3	post-adj3	I took a deep breath and an even deeper swallow of my drink , and said , `` I admit that going back for humor to Ralph Waldo Emerson is like going to a modern musical comedy for music and comedy '' .
cr06.23.4	post-adj3	I took a deep breath and an even deeper swallow of my drink , and said , `` I admit that going for humor back to Ralph Waldo Emerson is like going to a modern musical comedy for music and comedy '' .
cr06.23.5	post-adj3	I took a deep breath and an even deeper swallow of my drink , and said , `` I admit that going to Ralph Waldo Emerson for humor back is like going to a modern musical comedy for music and comedy '' .
cr06.25.0	ref	`` It does n't drown out the dialogue '' , I explained .
cr06.25.1	quote	`` It does n't drown out the dialogue '' , explained I .
cr06.27.0	ref	`` I am told that in America you have non-books by non-writers , brought out by non-publishers for non-readers .
cr06.27.1	post-adj2	`` I am told that in America you have non-books by non-writers , brought out for non-readers by non-publishers .
cr06.29.0	ref	`` There is non-fiction and non non-fiction '' , I said .
cr06.29.1	quote	`` There is non-fiction and non non-fiction '' , said I .
cr06.30.0	ref	`` Speaking of nonism : the other day , in a story about a sit-down demonstration , the Paris Herald Tribune wrote ' The non-violence became noisier .
cr06.30.1	pre-adj2	`` Speaking of nonism : in a story about a sit-down demonstration , the other day , the Paris Herald Tribune wrote ' The non-violence became noisier .
cr06.36.0	ref	`` I know what you mean '' , Moreland sighed .
cr06.36.1	quote	`` I know what you mean '' , sighed Moreland .
cr06.39.0	ref	I 'm not pleading for the heart that leaps up when it beholds a rainbow in the sky , or for the heart that with rapture fills and dances with the daffodils .
cr06.39.1	post-adv	I 'm not pleading for the heart that when it beholds a rainbow in the sky leaps up , or for the heart that with rapture fills and dances with the daffodils .
cr06.41.0	ref	`` We no longer have Tom Moore 's and Longfellow 's ' heart for any fate ' , either '' , I said .
cr06.41.1	quote	`` We no longer have Tom Moore 's and Longfellow 's ' heart for any fate ' , either '' , said I .
cr06.42.0	ref	`` Moore and Longfellow did n't have the fate that faces us '' , Moreland said .
cr06.42.1	quote	`` Moore and Longfellow did n't have the fate that faces us '' , said Moreland .
cr06.46.0	ref	When it was worn in the breast , or even on the sleeve , we at least knew where it was '' .
cr06.46.1	pre-adv	We at least knew where it was , when it was worn in the breast , or even on the sleeve '' .
cr06.48.0	ref	`` You have visited England five times in the past quarter-century , I believe '' , my host said .
cr06.48.1	quote	`` You have visited England five times in the past quarter-century , believe I '' , my host said .
cr06.48.2	quote	`` You have visited England five times in the past quarter-century , I believe '' , said my host .
cr06.49.0	ref	`` What has impressed you most on your present visit '' ?
cr06.49.1	post-adj2	`` What has impressed you on your present visit most '' ?
cr06.50.0	ref	`` I would say depressed , not impressed '' , I told him .
cr06.50.1	quote	`` I would say depressed , not impressed '' , told I him .
cr06.55.0	ref	`` But you must have heard it said that the drawing-room disappeared forever with the somnolent years of James and the antic heyday of Coward .
cr06.55.1	post-adj2	`` But you must have heard it said that the drawing-room disappeared with the somnolent years of James and the antic heyday of Coward forever .
cr06.56.0	ref	I myself hear it said constantly -- in drawing-rooms .
cr06.56.1	post-adj2	I myself hear it said in drawing-rooms -- constantly .
cr06.59.0	ref	`` If you are trying to get us out of the brothel , the dustbin , the kitchen sink , and the tawdry living-room , you are probably wasting your time '' , Moreland told me .
cr06.59.1	pre-adv	`` You are probably wasting your time , if you are trying to get us out of the brothel , the dustbin , the kitchen sink , and the tawdry living-room '' , Moreland told me .
cr06.64.0	ref	Moreland sat brooding for a full minute , during which I made each of us a new drink .
cr06.64.1	dat-np-np	Moreland sat brooding for a full minute , during which I made a new drink to each of us .
cr06.66.0	ref	`` Be careful of the word ' gay ' , for it , too , has undergone a change .
cr06.66.1	post-adv	For it , too , has undergone a change , `` be careful of the word ' gay ' .
cr06.67.0	ref	It now means , in my country , homosexual '' , I said .
cr06.67.1	quote	It now means , in my country , homosexual '' , said I .
cr06.68.0	ref	`` Oh , I forgot to say that if one is taken to the funny house in the funny wagon , he is removed to a mental institution in an ambulance .
cr06.68.1	pre-adv	`` Oh , I forgot to say that he is removed to a mental institution in an ambulance , if one is taken to the funny house in the funny wagon .
cr06.68.2	post-adj2	`` Oh , I forgot to say that if one is taken in the funny wagon to the funny house , he is removed to a mental institution in an ambulance .
cr06.69.0	ref	Recently , by the way , I received a questionnaire in which I was asked whether or not I was non-institutionalized '' .
cr06.69.1	pre-adj2	By the way , recently , I received a questionnaire in which I was asked whether or not I was non-institutionalized '' .
cr06.72.0	ref	`` Oh , that is demonstrable '' , I told him .
cr06.72.1	quote	`` Oh , that is demonstrable '' , told I him .
cr06.73.0	ref	`` Do you remember the woman in the French Alps who was all alone with her sheep one day when the sun darkened ominously ?
cr06.73.1	post-adv	`` Do you remember the woman in the French Alps who when the sun darkened ominously was all alone with her sheep one day ?
cr06.73.2	post-adj2	`` Do you remember the woman in the French Alps who was one day all alone with her sheep when the sun darkened ominously ?
cr06.77.0	ref	`` That is only partly non-nonsense '' , he began .
cr06.77.1	quote	`` That is only partly non-nonsense '' , began he .
cr06.78.0	ref	`` If you saw the drama called Rhinoceros '' , I said , `` think of the effect it would have on an audience of rhinos when the actor on stage suddenly begins turning into a rhinoceros .
cr06.78.1	post-adv	`` If you saw the drama called Rhinoceros '' , I said , `` think of the effect it when the actor on stage suddenly begins turning into a rhinoceros would have on an audience of rhinos .
cr06.78.2	pre-adv	I said , `` think of the effect it would have on an audience of rhinos when the actor on stage suddenly begins turning into a rhinoceros `` if you saw the drama called Rhinoceros '' .
cr06.79.0	ref	The rhinos would panic , screaming help ! if that can be screamed in their language '' .
cr06.79.1	post-adv	The rhinos would panic , if that can be screamed in their language screaming help ! '' .
cr06.80.0	ref	`` You think the Russians are getting ahead of us in comedy '' ? Moreland demanded .
cr06.80.1	post-adj2	`` You think the Russians are getting in comedy ahead of us '' ? Moreland demanded .
cr06.82.0	ref	`` The political and intellectual Left began fighting humor and comedy years ago , because they fear things they do not understand and can not manage , such as satire and irony , such as humor and comedy .
cr06.82.1	post-adv	Because they fear things they do not understand and can not manage , such as satire and irony , such as humor and comedy , `` the political and intellectual Left began fighting humor and comedy years ago .
cr06.83.0	ref	Nevertheless , like any other human being upon whom the spotlight of the world plays continually , Khrushchev , the anti-personality cultist , has become a comic actor , or thinks he has .
cr06.83.1	pre-adj2	Like any other human being upon whom the spotlight of the world plays continually , nevertheless , Khrushchev , the anti-personality cultist , has become a comic actor , or thinks he has .
cr06.90.0	ref	`` You and I have fallen out of literature into politics '' , Moreland observed .
cr06.90.1	quote	`` You and I have fallen out of literature into politics '' , observed Moreland .
cr06.90.2	post-adj2	`` You and I have fallen into politics out of literature '' , Moreland observed .
cr06.97.0	ref	`` Now we are leaving humor and comedy behind again '' , Moreland protested .
cr06.97.1	quote	`` Now we are leaving humor and comedy behind again '' , protested Moreland .
cr06.97.2	post-adj2	`` Now we are leaving humor and comedy again behind '' , Moreland protested .
cr06.100.0	ref	Why do we not realize that no ideology believes so much in itself as it disbelieves in something else ?
cr06.100.1	post-adj2	Why do we not realize that no ideology believes in itself so much as it disbelieves in something else ?
cr06.101.0	ref	Forty years ago an English writer , W.L. George , dealt with this subject in Eddies of the Day , and said , as an example , that ' Saint George for Merry England ' would not start a spirit half so quickly as ' Strike frog-eating Frenchmen dead ' '' !
cr06.101.1	post-adj2	Forty years ago an English writer , W.L. George , dealt in Eddies of the Day with this subject , and said , as an example , that ' Saint George for Merry England ' would not start a spirit half so quickly as ' Strike frog-eating Frenchmen dead ' '' !
cr06.107.0	ref	`` Great satire has always been clearly written and readily understandable '' , I said .
cr06.107.1	quote	`` Great satire has always been clearly written and readily understandable '' , said I .
cr07.5.0	ref	Arlene was boosting them up when the policeman came by .
cr07.5.1	post-adv	Arlene when the policeman came by was boosting them up .
cr07.7.0	ref	Arlene had a hard voice , too , this time .
cr07.7.1	post-adj2	Arlene had a hard voice , this time , too .
cr07.8.0	ref	The policeman 's eyes rather popped for a second ; but then Arlene got another tone in a hurry , and she said , `` If it was n't for these dear children '' .
cr07.8.1	post-adv	The policeman 's eyes rather popped for a second ; but then Arlene got another tone in a hurry , and `` if it was n't for these dear children '' she said .
cr07.11.0	ref	Arlene was so ashamed that she hung her head when she said , `` Yes , sir '' .
cr07.11.1	post-adv	Arlene was so ashamed that when she said , `` Yes , sir '' she hung her head .
cr07.14.0	ref	Arlene had taught them a new way to have fun in their little private area ; and they had told their mother about the tumbles .
cr07.14.1	dat-np-np	Arlene had taught a new way to have fun in their little private area to them ; and they had told their mother about the tumbles .
cr07.16.0	ref	`` Never mind '' , Arlene had said , after the policeman had left , having pursued the usual unco-operative course of grownups .
cr07.16.1	post-adv	`` Never mind '' , Arlene , after the policeman had left , having pursued the usual unco-operative course of grownups , had said .
cr07.22.0	ref	And when they had got to their little lawn , they had had a most twirlingly magnificent time .
cr07.22.1	pre-adv	And they had had a most twirlingly magnificent time , when they had got to their little lawn .
cr07.29.0	ref	One of the many things that was so nice about her was that she always took your questions seriously , particularly your very , very serious questions .
cr07.29.1	dat-np-np	One of the many things that was so nice about her was that she always took particularly your very , very serious questions seriously , to your questions .
cr07.34.0	ref	`` Now '' , said Arlene , eventually , making them both sit in formation on a big root of a live oak , the sort of root that divided itself and made their bottoms sag down and feel comfortable .
cr07.34.1	post-adj2	`` Now '' , said Arlene , eventually , making them both sit on a big root of a live oak , the sort of root that divided itself and made their bottoms sag down and feel comfortable in formation .
cr07.37.0	ref	Their curiosity went happily out of bounds .
cr07.37.1	post-adj2	Their curiosity went out of bounds happily .
cr07.40.0	ref	`` Imagine being able to laugh and wink when you 're like the top part of that picture frame at home '' , one of them said .
cr07.40.1	post-adv	`` Imagine when you 're like the top part of that picture frame at home being able to laugh and wink '' , one of them said .
cr07.42.0	ref	`` I 'm General Burnside 's horse , upside down '' , Arlene said , sort of gaspingly , for her : even she had to breathe kind of funny when she was in that position .
cr07.42.1	post-adv	`` I 'm General Burnside 's horse , upside down '' , Arlene said , sort of gaspingly , for her : when she was in that position even she had to breathe kind of funny .
cr07.42.2	quote	`` I 'm General Burnside 's horse , upside down '' , said Arlene , sort of gaspingly , for her : even she had to breathe kind of funny when she was in that position .
cr07.43.0	ref	She made General Burnside 's horse 's belly do so funny when it was upside down .
cr07.43.1	post-adv	She made when it was upside down General Burnside 's horse 's belly do so funny .
cr07.44.0	ref	Then , she was back on her feet , winking and smiling that enormous smile -LRB- she had lots of wonderful big teeth that you never would have suspected she had when she was not smiling -RRB- .
cr07.44.1	post-adv	Then , she was back on her feet , winking and smiling that enormous smile -LRB- she had lots of wonderful big teeth that you never would when she was not smiling have suspected she had -RRB- .
cr07.48.0	ref	`` This time '' , Arlene said , and she even kept on wiggling a little bit while she was just talking , `` you 're going to tell me what I am and what I 'm doing .
cr07.48.1	post-adv	`` This time '' , Arlene said , and while she was just talking she even kept on wiggling a little bit , `` you 're going to tell me what I am and what I 'm doing .
cr07.52.0	ref	His legs shook , and the shaking went right on up his body through his hips to his shoulders .
cr07.52.1	post-adj3	His legs shook , and the shaking went through his hips right on up his body to his shoulders .
cr07.52.2	post-adj3	His legs shook , and the shaking went to his shoulders through his hips right on up his body .
cr07.52.3	post-adj3	His legs shook , and the shaking went right on up his body to his shoulders through his hips .
cr07.52.4	post-adj3	His legs shook , and the shaking went to his shoulders right on up his body through his hips .
cr07.52.5	post-adj3	His legs shook , and the shaking went through his hips to his shoulders right on up his body .
cr07.53.0	ref	`` That 's the General 's horse '' , one of them cried out .
cr07.53.1	quote	`` That 's the General 's horse '' , cried one of them out .
cr07.59.0	ref	But it was even funnier after they had been told .
cr07.59.1	post-adv	After they had been told but it was even funnier .
cr07.60.0	ref	Their father , when he came back from those many business trips , just bumped their mother on the forehead with his lips and asked if anybody had thought to mix the martinis and put them in the electric icebox .
cr07.60.1	pre-adv	Their father just bumped their mother on the forehead with his lips and asked if anybody had thought to mix the martinis and put them in the electric icebox , when he came back from those many business trips .
cr07.60.2	post-adj2	Their father , when he came from those many business trips back , just bumped their mother on the forehead with his lips and asked if anybody had thought to mix the martinis and put them in the electric icebox .
cr07.63.0	ref	He never could keep still , even when he did n't move his feet .
cr07.63.1	post-adv	He never , even when he did n't move his feet , could keep still .
cr07.70.0	ref	`` You ought to shake '' , Arlene advised them .
cr07.70.1	quote	`` You ought to shake '' , advised Arlene them .
cr07.76.0	ref	`` Imagine you wo n't get your allowance if you 're caught not smiling -- or smiling with your lips trembling too much '' , Arlene suggested .
cr07.76.1	post-adv	`` Imagine you if you 're caught not smiling -- or smiling with your lips trembling too much wo n't get your allowance '' , Arlene suggested .
cr07.79.0	ref	`` I 'm sorry , Mrs. Minks '' , Arlene said in a tone so low you could hardly hear it .
cr07.79.1	quote	`` I 'm sorry , Mrs. Minks '' , said Arlene in a tone so low you could hardly hear it .
cr07.81.0	ref	`` It 's perfectly understandable , Arlene '' , my mother said in a friendly way .
cr07.81.1	quote	`` It 's perfectly understandable , Arlene '' , said my mother in a friendly way .
cr07.86.0	ref	`` Arlene 's a good girl '' , my uncle remarked to us ; but he said it too soon , for it came out just before the tap to which the door responded .
cr07.86.1	post-adv	`` Arlene 's a good girl '' , my uncle remarked to us ; but , for it came out just before the tap to which the door responded , he said it too soon .
cr07.86.2	quote	`` Arlene 's a good girl '' , remarked my uncle to us ; but he said it too soon , for it came out just before the tap to which the door responded .
cr07.88.0	ref	`` She really is a dear little thing '' , my mother agreed .
cr07.88.1	quote	`` She really is a dear little thing '' , agreed my mother .
cr07.92.0	ref	She would try to see over the bulge of her cheeks and somewhat under her teeth to the place where she was biting .
cr07.92.1	post-adj2	She would try to see to the place where she was biting over the bulge of her cheeks and somewhat under her teeth .
cr07.94.0	ref	Also , when she had bitten off half of the small radish , she found the suspense unbearable ; and she would snatch the finger-held half of the radish out to where she could inspect it .
cr07.94.1	pre-adv	Also she found the suspense unbearable , when she had bitten off half of the small radish ; and she would snatch the finger-held half of the radish out to where she could inspect it .
cr07.98.0	ref	Later on , the children told her further about somersaulting .
cr07.98.1	post-adj2	Later on , the children told her about somersaulting further .
cr07.109.0	ref	Then , my mother blushed at this small lie ; for she knew and we knew that it was cowardice that had made one more radish that night just too impossible a strain .
cr07.109.1	post-adv	For she knew and we knew that it was cowardice that had made one more radish that night just too impossible a strain then , my mother blushed at this small lie .
cr07.118.0	ref	Sometimes , as at this juncture , he did not .
cr07.118.1	pre-adj2	As at this juncture , sometimes , he did not .
cr07.121.0	ref	When he had left , I could never remember whether he had poked them in their middles , laughingly , with a thick index finger or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look .
cr07.121.1	pre-adv	I could never remember whether he had poked them in their middles , laughingly , with a thick index finger or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look , when he had left .
cr07.121.2	post-adj3	When he had left , I could never remember whether he had poked them laughingly , in their middles , with a thick index finger or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look .
cr07.121.3	post-adj3	When he had left , I could never remember whether he had poked them with a thick index finger , laughingly , in their middles or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look .
cr07.121.4	post-adj3	When he had left , I could never remember whether he had poked them in their middles , with a thick index finger , laughingly or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look .
cr07.121.5	post-adj3	When he had left , I could never remember whether he had poked them , with a thick index finger , in their middles , laughingly or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look .
cr07.121.6	post-adj3	When he had left , I could never remember whether he had poked them laughingly , with a thick index finger , in their middles , or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look .
cr07.123.0	ref	This evening , they were pushed in from the breakfast room , with odds and ends of dessert distributed over them .
cr07.123.1	post-adv	This evening , they , with odds and ends of dessert distributed over them , were pushed in from the breakfast room .
cr07.124.0	ref	There had been some coconut in it , for I remember my mother 's taking a quick glance at a stringy bit of this nut on the cheek of one of them and then putting down her radish with a shiver .
cr07.124.1	post-adv	There , for I remember my mother 's taking a quick glance at a stringy bit of this nut on the cheek of one of them and then putting down her radish with a shiver , had been some coconut in it .
cr07.125.0	ref	They were pushed gently into the room by Arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door .
cr07.125.1	post-adj3	They were pushed into the room gently by Arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door .
cr07.125.2	post-adj3	They were pushed by Arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door into the room gently .
cr07.125.3	post-adj3	They were pushed gently by Arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door into the room .
cr07.125.4	post-adj3	They were pushed by Arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door gently into the room .
cr07.125.5	post-adj3	They were pushed into the room by Arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door gently .
cr07.132.0	ref	`` We go to the park with this nice lady '' , one of them said .
cr07.132.1	quote	`` We go to the park with this nice lady '' , said one of them .
cr07.132.2	post-adj2	`` We go with this nice lady to the park '' , one of them said .
cr07.144.0	ref	Usually , this was done when attention was diverted by someone else 's long , boring story .
cr07.144.1	post-adv	Usually , this when attention was diverted by someone else 's long , boring story was done .
cr07.146.0	ref	Mr. Gorboduc was finally in command of his mind again .
cr07.146.1	post-adj2	Mr. Gorboduc was again in command of his mind finally .
cr07.147.0	ref	`` Tell me -- what do you do at the park '' ? He asked .
cr07.147.1	quote	`` Tell me -- what do you do at the park '' ? asked he .
cr07.149.0	ref	Only , unfortunately , he could not remove from his voice a nagging insinuation of the direct command .
cr07.149.1	pre-adj2	Unfortunately , only , he could not remove from his voice a nagging insinuation of the direct command .
cr07.151.0	ref	`` We bump '' , one said ; and the other went on to development of the idea .
cr07.151.1	quote	`` We bump '' , said one ; and the other went on to development of the idea .
cr07.152.0	ref	`` We grind , too '' , he said .
cr07.152.1	quote	`` We grind , too '' , said he .
cr07.155.0	ref	She laughed a little and tossed the dregs rakishly around in her glass .
cr07.155.1	post-adj3	She laughed a little and tossed the dregs around rakishly in her glass .
cr07.155.2	post-adj3	She laughed a little and tossed the dregs in her glass around rakishly .
cr07.155.3	post-adj3	She laughed a little and tossed the dregs rakishly in her glass around .
cr07.155.4	post-adj3	She laughed a little and tossed the dregs , in her glass , rakishly around .
cr07.155.5	post-adj3	She laughed a little and tossed the dregs around in her glass rakishly .
cr08.2.0	ref	Marcellus , the hero , is beset from all sides by the problems of approaching manhood .
cr08.2.1	post-adj2	Marcellus , the hero , is beset by the problems of approaching manhood from all sides .
cr08.3.0	ref	The story opens on the eve of his fifty-third birthday , as he prepares for the two weeks of festivities that are to follow .
cr08.3.1	post-adv	As he prepares for the two weeks of festivities that are to follow , the story opens on the eve of his fifty-third birthday .
cr08.5.0	ref	He at once cancels the celebrations and , buckling on his scimitar , stumbles blindly from the house , where he is hit and killed by a passing oxcart .
cr08.5.1	post-adj2	He at once cancels the celebrations and , buckling on his scimitar , stumbles from the house blindly , where he is hit and killed by a passing oxcart .
cr08.7.0	ref	An unusual , if not extraordinary , rendering of the classic myth that involves the rescue of Prometheus from the rock by the U.S. Cavalry was given last week in the warehouse of the Albany Leather Conduit Company amid cheers of `` Hubba hubba '' and `` Yalagaloo pip pip '' !
cr08.7.1	post-adj3	An unusual , if not extraordinary , rendering of the classic myth that involves the rescue of Prometheus from the rock by the U.S. Cavalry was given in the warehouse of the Albany Leather Conduit Company last week amid cheers of `` Hubba hubba '' and `` Yalagaloo pip pip '' !
cr08.7.2	post-adj3	An unusual , if not extraordinary , rendering of the classic myth that involves the rescue of Prometheus from the rock by the U.S. Cavalry was given amid cheers of `` Hubba hubba '' and `` Yalagaloo pip pip '' in the warehouse of the Albany Leather Conduit Company last week !
cr08.7.3	post-adj3	An unusual , if not extraordinary , rendering of the classic myth that involves the rescue of Prometheus from the rock by the U.S. Cavalry was given last week amid cheers of `` Hubba hubba '' and `` Yalagaloo pip pip '' in the warehouse of the Albany Leather Conduit Company !
cr08.7.4	post-adj3	An unusual , if not extraordinary , rendering of the classic myth that involves the rescue of Prometheus from the rock by the U.S. Cavalry was given amid cheers of `` Hubba hubba '' and `` Yalagaloo pip pip '' last week in the warehouse of the Albany Leather Conduit Company !
cr08.7.5	post-adj3	An unusual , if not extraordinary , rendering of the classic myth that involves the rescue of Prometheus from the rock by the U.S. Cavalry was given in the warehouse of the Albany Leather Conduit Company amid cheers of `` Hubba hubba '' and `` Yalagaloo pip pip '' , last week !
cr08.10.0	ref	Old Order , acted and atonally sung by Grunnfeu Arapacis , the lovely Serbantian import , then entered and delivered the well-known invocation to the god Phineoppus , whereupon the stage is quite unexpectedly visited by a company of wandering Gorshek priests , symbolizing Love , Lust , Prudence and General Motors , respectively .
cr08.10.1	post-adv	Whereupon the stage is quite unexpectedly visited by a company of wandering Gorshek priests , symbolizing Love , Lust , Prudence and General Motors , respectively , Old Order , acted and atonally sung by Grunnfeu Arapacis , the lovely Serbantian import , then entered and delivered the well-known invocation to the god Phineoppus .
cr08.12.0	ref	The night he saw it , a rather unpleasant situation arose when the soloist refused to approach the armadillo , complaining -- in ad-lib -- that `` it smelled '' .
cr08.12.1	post-adv	When the soloist refused to approach the armadillo , complaining -- in ad-lib -- that `` it smelled '' the night he saw it , a rather unpleasant situation arose .
cr08.16.0	ref	For example , probably very few people know that the word `` visrhanik '' that is bantered about so much today stems from the verb `` bouanahsha '' : to salivate .
cr08.16.1	post-adj2	For example , probably very few people know that the word `` visrhanik '' that is bantered about today so much stems from the verb `` bouanahsha '' : to salivate .
cr08.18.0	ref	The terms are fairly safe to use on this side of the ocean , but before you start spouting them to your date , it might be best to find out if he was a member of Major Pockmanster 's Delhi Regiment , since resentment toward the natives was reportedly very high in that outfit .
cr08.18.1	post-adv	The terms are fairly safe to use on this side of the ocean , but before you start spouting them to your date , it , since resentment toward the natives was reportedly very high in that outfit , might be best to find out if he was a member of Major Pockmanster 's Delhi Regiment .
cr08.18.2	pre-adv	The terms are fairly safe to use on this side of the ocean , but it might be best to find out if he was a member of Major Pockmanster 's Delhi Regiment , since resentment toward the natives was reportedly very high in that outfit , before you start spouting them to your date .
cr08.20.0	ref	As you have doubtless guessed already , the plot is plastered with Freudian , Jungian , and Meinckian theory .
cr08.20.1	pre-adv	The plot is plastered with Freudian , Jungian , and Meinckian theory , as you have doubtless guessed already .
cr08.21.0	ref	For example , when the film is only four minutes old , Neitzbohr refers to a small , Victorian piano stool as `` Wilhelmina '' , and we are thereupon subjected to a flashback that informs us that this very piano stool was once used by an epileptic governess whose name , of course , was Doris -LRB- the English equivalent , when passed through middle-Gaelic derivations , of Wilhelmina -RRB- .
cr08.21.1	pre-adv	For example , Neitzbohr refers to a small , Victorian piano stool as `` Wilhelmina '' , when the film is only four minutes old , and we are thereupon subjected to a flashback that informs us that this very piano stool was once used by an epileptic governess whose name , of course , was Doris -LRB- the English equivalent , when passed through middle-Gaelic derivations , of Wilhelmina -RRB- .
cr08.21.2	post-adj2	For example , when the film is only four minutes old , Neitzbohr refers as `` Wilhelmina '' to a small , Victorian piano stool , and we are thereupon subjected to a flashback that informs us that this very piano stool was once used by an epileptic governess whose name , of course , was Doris -LRB- the English equivalent , when passed through middle-Gaelic derivations , of Wilhelmina -RRB- .
cr08.24.0	ref	As we find out at the end , it is not the stool -LRB- symbolizing Doris , therefore the English -RRB- that he is punishing but the piece of Venetian blind .
cr08.24.1	pre-adv	It is not the stool -LRB- symbolizing Doris , therefore the English -RRB- that he is punishing but the piece of Venetian blind , as we find out at the end .
cr08.25.0	ref	And , when the slat finally shatters , we see him count the fragments , all the while muttering , `` He loves me , he loves me not '' .
cr08.25.1	pre-adv	And we see him count the fragments , all the while muttering , `` He loves me , he loves me not '' , when the slat finally shatters .
cr08.26.0	ref	After a few tortuous moments of wondering who `` he '' is , the camera pans across the room to the plaster statue , and we realize that Neitzbohr is trying to redeem himself in the eyes of a mute piece of sculpture .
cr08.26.1	post-adj2	After a few tortuous moments of wondering who `` he '' is , the camera pans to the plaster statue across the room , and we realize that Neitzbohr is trying to redeem himself in the eyes of a mute piece of sculpture .
cr08.27.0	ref	The effect , needless to say , is almost terrifying , and though at times a bit obscure , the film is certainly a much-needed catharsis for the `` repressed '' movie-goer .
cr08.27.1	pre-adv	The effect , needless to say , is almost terrifying , and the film is certainly a much-needed catharsis for the `` repressed '' movie-goer , though at times a bit obscure .
cr08.30.0	ref	But now , under the guidance of the contemporary composer Marc Schlek , Jr. , a major revival is under way .
cr08.30.1	pre-adj2	But under the guidance of the contemporary composer Marc Schlek , Jr. , now , a major revival is under way .
cr08.31.0	ref	As he leads the Neurenschatz Skolkau Orchestra , Schlek gives a tremendously inspired performance of both the Baslot and Rattzhenfuut concertos , including the controversial Tschilwyk cadenza , which was included at the conductor 's insistence .
cr08.31.1	pre-adv	Schlek gives a tremendously inspired performance of both the Baslot and Rattzhenfuut concertos , including the controversial Tschilwyk cadenza , which was included at the conductor 's insistence , as he leads the Neurenschatz Skolkau Orchestra .
cr08.32.0	ref	A major portion of the credit should also go to flautist Haumd for his rendering of the almost impossible `` Indianapolis '' movement in the Baslot .
cr08.32.1	post-adj2	A major portion of the credit should also go for his rendering of the almost impossible `` Indianapolis '' movement in the Baslot to flautist Haumd .
cr08.34.0	ref	For example , to move -LRB- as the score requires -RRB- from the lowest F-major register up to a barely audible N minor in four seconds , not skipping , at the same time , even one of the 407 fingerings , seems a feat too absurd to consider , and it is to the flautist 's credit that he remained silent throughout the passage .
cr08.34.1	post-adj3	For example , to move -LRB- as the score requires -RRB- up to a barely audible N minor from the lowest F-major register in four seconds , not skipping , at the same time , even one of the 407 fingerings , seems a feat too absurd to consider , and it is to the flautist 's credit that he remained silent throughout the passage .
cr08.34.2	post-adj3	For example , to move -LRB- as the score requires -RRB- in four seconds up to a barely audible N minor from the lowest F-major register , not skipping , at the same time , even one of the 407 fingerings , seems a feat too absurd to consider , and it is to the flautist 's credit that he remained silent throughout the passage .
cr08.34.3	post-adj3	For example , to move -LRB- as the score requires -RRB- from the lowest F-major register in four seconds up to a barely audible N minor , not skipping , at the same time , even one of the 407 fingerings , seems a feat too absurd to consider , and it is to the flautist 's credit that he remained silent throughout the passage .
cr08.34.4	post-adj3	For example , to move -LRB- as the score requires -RRB- , in four seconds , from the lowest F-major register up to a barely audible N minor not skipping , at the same time , even one of the 407 fingerings , seems a feat too absurd to consider , and it is to the flautist 's credit that he remained silent throughout the passage .
cr08.34.5	post-adj3	For example , to move -LRB- as the score requires -RRB- up to a barely audible N minor in four seconds from the lowest F-major register , not skipping , at the same time , even one of the 407 fingerings , seems a feat too absurd to consider , and it is to the flautist 's credit that he remained silent throughout the passage .
cr08.35.0	ref	We would have preferred , however , to have had the rest of the orchestra refrain from laughing at this and other spots on the recording , since it mars an otherwise sober , if not lofty , performance .
cr08.35.1	post-adv	We would , since it mars an otherwise sober , if not lofty , performance , have preferred , however , to have had the rest of the orchestra refrain from laughing at this and other spots on the recording .
cr08.36.0	ref	As Broadway itself becomes increasingly weighted down by trite , heavy-handed , commercially successful musicals and inspirational problem dramas , the American theatre is going through an inexorable renaissance in that nebulous area known as `` off-Broadway '' .
cr08.36.1	pre-adv	The American theatre is going through an inexorable renaissance in that nebulous area known as `` off-Broadway '' , as Broadway itself becomes increasingly weighted down by trite , heavy-handed , commercially successful musicals and inspirational problem dramas .
cr08.39.0	ref	Although the play does show a certain structural amateurishness -LRB- there are eleven acts varying in length from twenty-five seconds to an hour and a half -RRB- , the statement it makes concerning the ceaseless yearning and searching of youth is profound and worthy of our attention .
cr08.39.1	pre-adv	-LRB- There are eleven acts varying in length from twenty-five seconds to an hour and a half -RRB- , the statement it makes concerning the ceaseless yearning and searching of youth is profound and worthy of our attention although the play does show a certain structural amateurishness .
cr08.39.2	post-adj2	Although the play does show a certain structural amateurishness -LRB- there are eleven acts varying from twenty-five seconds to an hour and a half in length -RRB- , the statement it makes concerning the ceaseless yearning and searching of youth is profound and worthy of our attention .
cr08.42.0	ref	The innocence that they tried to conceal at the beginning is clearly destroyed forever when one of them , asking for a piece of lemon-meringue pie , gets a plate of English muffins instead .
cr08.42.1	post-adv	The innocence that they tried to conceal at the beginning when one of them , asking for a piece of lemon-meringue pie , gets a plate of English muffins instead is clearly destroyed forever .
cr08.43.0	ref	Leaving the theatre after the performance , I had a flash of intuition that life , after all -LRB- as Rilke said -RRB- , is just a search for the nonexistent cup of hot coffee , and that this unpretentious , moving , clever , bitter slice of life was the greatest thing to happen to the American theatre since Brooks Atkinson retired .
cr08.43.1	post-adv	Leaving the theatre after the performance , I had a flash of intuition that life , after all -LRB- as Rilke said -RRB- , is just a search for the nonexistent cup of hot coffee , and that this unpretentious , moving , clever , bitter slice of life was the greatest thing since Brooks Atkinson retired to happen to the American theatre .
cr08.44.0	ref	Aging but still precocious , French feline enfant terrible Francoisette Lagoon has succeeded in shocking jaded old Paris again , this time with a sexy ballet scenario called The Lascivious Interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel .
cr08.44.1	post-adj3	Aging but still precocious , French feline enfant terrible Francoisette Lagoon has succeeded this time , in shocking jaded old Paris again with a sexy ballet scenario called The Lascivious Interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel .
cr08.44.2	post-adj3	Aging but still precocious , French feline enfant terrible Francoisette Lagoon has succeeded with a sexy ballet scenario called The Lascivious Interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel , this time in shocking jaded old Paris again .
cr08.44.3	post-adj3	Aging but still precocious , French feline enfant terrible Francoisette Lagoon has succeeded in shocking jaded old Paris again , with a sexy ballet scenario called The Lascivious Interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel this time .
cr08.44.4	post-adj3	Aging but still precocious , French feline enfant terrible Francoisette Lagoon has succeeded with a sexy ballet scenario called The Lascivious Interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel in shocking jaded old Paris again , this time .
cr08.44.5	post-adj3	Aging but still precocious , French feline enfant terrible Francoisette Lagoon has succeeded this time with a sexy ballet scenario called The Lascivious Interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel , in shocking jaded old Paris again .
cr08.45.0	ref	A biting , pithy parable of the all-pervading hollowness of modern life , the piece has been set by Mlle Lagoon to a sumptuous score -LRB- a single motif played over and over by four thousand French horns -RRB- by existentialist hot-shot Jean-Paul Sartre .
cr08.45.1	post-adj2	A biting , pithy parable of the all-pervading hollowness of modern life , the piece has been set to a sumptuous score -LRB- a single motif played over and over by four thousand French horns -RRB- by existentialist hot-shot Jean-Paul Sartre by Mlle Lagoon .
cr08.49.0	ref	It is not an entirely happy book , as Mrs. Fink soon becomes jealous of Alicia and , in retaliation , refuses to continue to scrape the algae off her glass .
cr08.49.1	post-adv	As Mrs. Fink soon becomes jealous of Alicia and , in retaliation , refuses to continue to scrape the algae off her glass , it is not an entirely happy book .
cr08.50.0	ref	Max , in a fit of despair , takes Alicia and runs off for two marvelous weeks in Burbank -LRB- Fink calls it `` the most wonderful and lovely fourteen days in my whole life '' -RRB- , at the end of which Alicia tragically contracts Parkinson 's disease and dies .
cr08.50.1	post-adj2	Max , in a fit of despair , takes Alicia and runs for two marvelous weeks in Burbank -LRB- Fink calls it `` the most wonderful and lovely fourteen days in my whole life '' -RRB- , at the end of which Alicia tragically contracts Parkinson 's disease and dies off .
cr08.51.0	ref	This brief resume hardly does the book justice , but I heartily recommend it to all those who are engages with the major problems of our time .
cr08.51.1	dat-np-np	This brief resume hardly does justice to the book , but I heartily recommend it to all those who are engages with the major problems of our time .
cr08.58.0	ref	Bravado has been alternately described as `` a symbol of the new grandeur of France and myself '' -LRB- De Gaulle -RRB- and `` a decadent , disgusting slob '' ! -LRB- Norman Mailer -RRB- , but no one can deny that the screen crackles with electricity whenever he is on it .
cr08.58.1	post-adv	Bravado has been alternately described as `` a symbol of the new grandeur of France and myself '' -LRB- De Gaulle -RRB- and `` a decadent , disgusting slob '' ! -LRB- Norman Mailer -RRB- , but no one can deny that whenever he is on it the screen crackles with electricity .
cr08.59.0	ref	Soaring to stardom along with him , Margo Felicity Brighetti , a luscious and curvaceously beguiling Italian starlet , turns in a creditable performance as an airplane mechanic .
cr08.59.1	post-adj2	Soaring along with him to stardom , Margo Felicity Brighetti , a luscious and curvaceously beguiling Italian starlet , turns in a creditable performance as an airplane mechanic .
cr08.60.0	ref	The battle of the drib-drool continues , but most of New York 's knowing sophisticates of Abstract Expressionism are stamping their feet impatiently in expectation of V -LRB- for Vindication -RRB- Day , September first , when Augustus Quasimodo 's first one-man show opens at the Guggenheim .
cr08.60.1	post-adj2	The battle of the drib-drool continues , but most of New York 's knowing sophisticates of Abstract Expressionism are stamping their feet in expectation of V -LRB- for Vindication -RRB- Day , September first , when Augustus Quasimodo 's first one-man show opens at the Guggenheim impatiently .
cr08.64.0	ref	`` I paint the nothing '' , he said once to Franz Kline and myself , `` the nothing that is behind the something , the inexpressible , unpaintable ' tick ' in the unconscious , the ' spirit ' of the moment resting forever , suspended like a huge balloon , in non-time '' .
cr08.64.1	post-adj2	`` I paint the nothing '' , he said to Franz Kline and myself once , `` the nothing that is behind the something , the inexpressible , unpaintable ' tick ' in the unconscious , the ' spirit ' of the moment resting forever , suspended like a huge balloon , in non-time '' .
cr09.3.0	ref	It is , I am reliably given to understand , the technical argot for those who engage in your particular branch of the boost ; i.e. , burglars who rob while the tenants are absent , in contrast to hot-slough prowlers , those who work while the occupants are home .
cr09.3.1	post-adv	It is , I am reliably given to understand , the technical argot for those who engage in your particular branch of the boost ; i.e. , burglars who while the tenants are absent rob , in contrast to hot-slough prowlers , those who work while the occupants are home .
cr09.3.2	post-adv	It is , I am reliably given to understand , the technical argot for those who engage in your particular branch of the boost ; i.e. , burglars who rob while the tenants are absent , in contrast to hot-slough prowlers , those who while the occupants are home work .
cr09.4.0	ref	Since the latter obviously require an audacity you do not possess , you may perhaps suppose that I am taunting you as socially inferior .
cr09.4.1	pre-adv	You may perhaps suppose that I am taunting you as socially inferior , since the latter obviously require an audacity you do not possess .
cr09.10.0	ref	As you 've doubtless forgotten the circumstances in the press of more recent depredations , permit me to recapitulate them briefly .
cr09.10.1	pre-adv	Permit me to recapitulate them briefly , as you 've doubtless forgotten the circumstances in the press of more recent depredations .
cr09.11.0	ref	Sometime on Saturday evening , August 22nd , while my family and I were dining at the Hostaria dell ' Orso , in Rome , you jimmied a window of our home in Bucks County , Pennsylvania , and let yourselves into the premises .
cr09.11.1	pre-adv	Sometime on Saturday evening , August 22nd you jimmied a window of our home in Bucks County , Pennsylvania , and let yourselves into the premises , while my family and I were dining at the Hostaria dell ' Orso , in Rome .
cr09.19.0	ref	The foregoing , aided by several clues I 'll withhold to keep you on your toes , will pursue you with a tenacity worthy of Inspector Javert , but before they close in , gird yourselves , I repeat , for a vengeance infinitely more pitiless .
cr09.19.1	pre-adv	The foregoing , aided by several clues I 'll withhold to keep you on your toes , will pursue you with a tenacity worthy of Inspector Javert , but gird yourselves , I repeat , for a vengeance infinitely more pitiless , before they close in .
cr09.20.0	ref	Fourteen of the sculptures you took possess properties of a most curious and terrifying nature , as you will observe when your limbs begin to wither and your hair falls out in patches .
cr09.20.1	post-adv	As you will observe when your limbs begin to wither and your hair falls out in patches , fourteen of the sculptures you took possess properties of a most curious and terrifying nature .
cr09.20.2	post-adv	Fourteen of the sculptures you took possess properties of a most curious and terrifying nature , as you when your limbs begin to wither and your hair falls out in patches will observe .
cr09.21.0	ref	In time , these minor manifestations will multiply and effloresce , riddling you with frambesia , the king 's evil , sheep rot , and clonic spasm , until your very existence becomes a burden and you cry out for release .
cr09.21.1	post-adv	In time , these minor manifestations will multiply and effloresce , until your very existence becomes a burden and you cry out for release , riddling you with frambesia , the king 's evil , sheep rot , and clonic spasm .
cr09.23.0	ref	If , however , it would help to intensify your anguish , I can delimit the powers of a few of the divinities you 've affronted and describe the punishment they meted out in one analogous instance .
cr09.23.1	pre-adv	However , it would help to intensify your anguish , I can delimit the powers of a few of the divinities you 've affronted and describe the punishment they meted out in one analogous instance , if .
cr09.33.0	ref	Whether the pair of Sudanese ivory carvings you lifted really possess the juju to turn your livers to lead , as a dealer in Khartoum assured me , I am not competent to say .
cr09.33.1	post-adv	Whether , as a dealer in Khartoum assured me , the pair of Sudanese ivory carvings you lifted really possess the juju to turn your livers to lead , I am not competent to say .
cr09.40.0	ref	Oddly enough , this is an amulet against housebreakers , presented to the mem and me by a local rajah in 1949 .
cr09.40.1	post-adj3	Oddly enough , this is an amulet against housebreakers , presented by a local rajah to the mem and me in 1949 .
cr09.40.2	post-adj3	Oddly enough , this is an amulet against housebreakers , presented in 1949 by a local rajah to the mem and me .
cr09.40.3	post-adj3	Oddly enough , this is an amulet against housebreakers , presented to the mem and me in 1949 by a local rajah .
cr09.40.4	post-adj3	Oddly enough , this is an amulet against housebreakers , presented in 1949 to the mem and me by a local rajah .
cr09.40.5	post-adj3	Oddly enough , this is an amulet against housebreakers , presented by a local rajah in 1949 to the mem and me .
cr09.44.0	ref	The teeth will rain from his mouth like pebbles , his wife will make him cocu with fishmongers , and a trolley car will grow in his stomach .
cr09.44.1	post-adj2	The teeth will rain like pebbles from his mouth , his wife will make him cocu with fishmongers , and a trolley car will grow in his stomach .
cr09.48.0	ref	Still , there it is .
cr09.48.1	pre-adj2	There , still it is .
cr09.54.0	ref	Our suspicions eventually centered , by the process of elimination , on a grocer 's boy , a thoroughly bad hat , who delivered cartons to the people overhead .
cr09.54.1	post-adj2	Our suspicions eventually centered , on a grocer 's boy , a thoroughly bad hat , who delivered cartons to the people overhead , by the process of elimination .
cr09.57.0	ref	His energy was prodigious ; sometimes he would be up before dawn , clad as a garbage collector and hurling pails into areaways to exasperate us , and thereafter would hurry to the Bronx Zoo to grimace at the lions and press cigar butts against their paws .
cr09.57.1	post-adj2	His energy was prodigious ; sometimes he would be before dawn up , clad as a garbage collector and hurling pails into areaways to exasperate us , and thereafter would hurry to the Bronx Zoo to grimace at the lions and press cigar butts against their paws .
cr09.60.0	ref	Well , the odious little toad went along chivying animals and humans who could n't retaliate , and in due course , as was inevitable , overreached himself .
cr09.60.1	post-adv	Well , the odious little toad , as was inevitable , went along chivying animals and humans who could n't retaliate , and in due course overreached himself .
cr09.62.0	ref	`` Now he 's bought it '' , said my wife contentedly .
cr09.62.1	iquote	`` Now he 's bought it '' , my wife said contentedly .
cr09.66.0	ref	The next time we saw him , he was a changed person ; he had aged thirty years , and his face , the color of tallow , was crisscrossed with wrinkles , as though it had been wrapped in chicken wire .
cr09.66.1	post-adv	The next time we saw him , he was a changed person ; he had aged thirty years , and his face , the color of tallow , as though it had been wrapped in chicken wire , was crisscrossed with wrinkles .
cr09.67.0	ref	Some sort of nemesis was haunting his footsteps , he told us in a quavering voice -- either an ape specter or Abe Spector , a process-server , we could n't determine which .
cr09.67.1	quote	Some sort of nemesis was haunting his footsteps , told he us in a quavering voice -- either an ape specter or Abe Spector , a process-server , we could n't determine which .
cr09.80.0	ref	Additionally , since you 're going to be hors de combat pretty soon with sprue , yaws , Delhi boil , the Granville wilt , liver fluke , bilharziasis , and a host of other complications of the hex you 've aroused , you must n't expect to be lionized socially .
cr09.80.1	pre-adv	Additionally you must n't expect to be lionized socially , since you 're going to be hors de combat pretty soon with sprue , yaws , Delhi boil , the Granville wilt , liver fluke , bilharziasis , and a host of other complications of the hex you 've aroused .
cr09.80.2	post-adj2	Additionally , since you 're going to be hors de combat with sprue , yaws , Delhi boil , the Granville wilt , liver fluke , bilharziasis , and a host of other complications of the hex you 've aroused pretty soon , you must n't expect to be lionized socially .
cr09.81.0	ref	My advice , if you live long enough to continue your vocation , is that the next time you 're attracted by the exotic , pass it up -- it 's nothing but a headache .
cr09.81.1	pre-adv	My advice is that the next time you 're attracted by the exotic , pass it up -- it 's nothing but a headache , if you live long enough to continue your vocation .
cr09.85.0	ref	The doors of the D train slid shut , and as I dropped into a seat and , exhaling , looked up across the aisle , the whole aviary in my head burst into song .
cr09.85.1	pre-adv	The doors of the D train slid shut , and the whole aviary in my head burst into song , as I dropped into a seat and , exhaling , looked up across the aisle .
